


August 6th Changelog

    New Premium Content:

        • New gametype - Freeze Tag
        • 20 Maps, including:
        o 5 Brand New Arenas
        o 4 Challenge ProMode Arena Classics
        o 3 Threewave CTF Classics
        o 3 Q3 Community Contest Maps
        o 2 Rocket Arena 3 Classics
        o 2 Orange Smoothie Production Map Pak Classics
        o 1 Quake Live Community Map

    Premium Map Additions:

        • Aerowalk (Duel)
        • Battleforged (Duel)
        • Black Cathedral (CA)
        • Cold War (CA)
        • Deep Inside (TDM)
        • Dismemberment (Duel)
        • Dreadful Place (TDM)
        • Focal Point (Duel)
        • Hektik (Duel)
        • Industrial Accident (CTF)
        • Intervention (TDM)
        • Japanese Castles (CTF)
        • Leviathan (TDM)
        • Overkill (CA)
        • Phrantic (Duel)
        • Purgatory (TDM)
        • Realm of Steel Rats (TDM)
        • Shining Forces (CTF)
        • Stonekeep (CTF)
        • Theatre of Pain (CA)

    Code Updates:

        • New clan system support
        • Added /block, /unblock, and /blocklist console commands.

            o /block name - blocks the player from in-game and website chat (do not include clan in the name)
            o /unblock name - blocks the player from in-game and website chat (do not include clan in the name)
            o /blocklist - lists currently blocked players

        • Abandoned sequentially numbered filenames for maps in favor of actual map names, ie 'qzdm6' is now simply 'campgrounds'
        • New console auto-complete code, including the ability to autocomplete map names during console callvotes.
        • Auto-complete: demo names if "demo" is the first token.
        • Team locator icons are now visible regardless of the PVS, they are now visible throughout the map.
        • Team overlay: Background and drop shadow changes.
        • Added /print command. Prints a local message on screen. (useful for binds)
        • Alias system (example usage below)

            o alias +jumpup "say I'm jumping;+moveup"
            o alias -jumpup "say I'm landing;-moveup"
            o bind ] +jumpup

        • Spectating players in duel will now utilize that players model & sound set rather than enemy model & sound.
        • Added 'spec pu' cmd to cycle your spectating view between players holding power-ups.
        • Added aspect ratio correct crosshairs - crosshairs are no longer squished on widescreen.
        • Minimum respawn delay lowered from 2100ms to 2000ms.
        • New in-game Ad support
        • Battlesuit balance adjustment, no longer prevents splash damage (all damage including splash is still reduced by 75%; you still take no damage from lava; still take no damage from acid/slime; still cannot drown...).
        • Map 'author' support added to display level design credit for jointly owned community map additions.

    Website Changes:

        • Added Standard/Premium/Pro user site functionality, including the ability to purchase account subscriptions or redeem tokens for subscription.
        • Most of the site has been revamped or retouched.
        • Upgraded to the latest release of our forum package. Revisions to the default forum style will come in a future update.
        • Added new pre-login splash page design.
        • Added a "Register" button to the top of the pages again, when not logged in.
        • Added detection for web client/server getting out of sync with regard to whether they are logged in.
        • Added a pre-game interstitial advertisement to 'standard' users that will show when they first launch into game.

    Map Changes:
    All existing maps have received visual improvements, including ambient occlusion dirt map lighting and true vertexlighting.
    All Capture the Flag arenas now have team-colored team overlay location information to easily identify whether your teammates are located in base, center or enemy base.

    • Asylum -

        o Added teleporter destination floor decal

    • Base Siege -

        o Replaced proxylaunchers with grenade launchers
        o Swapped shotgun and nailgun positions
        o Replaced lower yellow armor in base with a green armor jacket
        o Staircases in center have been altered

    • Bloodlust –

        o Renamed from ‘Bloodlust CTF’ to ‘Bloodlust’
        o Fixed asymmetrical bridge structures in base

    • Bloodrun –

        o Added teleporter destination decals
        o Removed gl spawn

    • Courtyard –

        o Renamed from ‘Courtyard Conundrum’ to ‘Courtyard’
        o Added a hallway and door between Pillar Hall and Teleporter room
        o Replaced red armor in teleporter room with a medkit
        o Moved Pillar Hall yellow armor to the Power-up Room
        o Moved plasmagun from base nook onto base floor
        o Added yellow armor to base nook
        o Increased the megahealth respawn delay from 35 to 60 second

    • Eviscerated

        o Renamed from ‘Place of Many Deaths’ to ‘Eviscerated’

    • Hearth

        o Renamed from ‘Arena of Death’ to ‘Hearth’

    • Ironworks

        o Fixed asymmetrical spawn locations

    • Longest Yard

        o Renamed from ‘The Longest Yard’ to ‘Longest Yard’
        o Added 5 new spawn locations

    • Lost World

        o Added teleporter destination floor decal
        o Improved wall clipping near lightninggun staircase doorway

    • Retribution

        o Renamed ‘Temple of Retribution’ to ‘Retribution’
        o Swapped railgun and shotgun locations in Team Deathmatch

    • Sacellum

        o Renamed ‘Temple of Pain’ to ‘Sacellum’

    • Siberia –

        o Added snowpatch near nailgun jumppad to cushion falling damage that occurred while dropping down from red armor

    • Space CTF –

        o Removed base-side megahealths in favor of a single megahealth on the center platform
        o Removed central railgun in favor of base-side railguns on the Perch
        o Increased the railgun respawn delay to 20 seconds, with a 5 slug ammo payload
        o Added a plasmagun along the central accelpad route

    • Spillway –

        o Renamed ‘House of Pain’ to ‘Spillway’

    • Stronghold –

        o Renamed ‘The Stronghold’ to ‘Stronghold’
        o Removed megahealth spawn from center basement in favor of teamed Quad & Regen power-ups

    • Terminal Heights –

        o Added a new bouncepad route from Flight to BFG to support Flight as a holdable power-up



-----------------------------------


Site Update - August 24, 2010

    Today's update includes fixes and improvements to our Matchmaking, "Start a Match" feature, Invite System, and player sizes on servers.

    Included in this update:

        Fixed a tier bug in FFA which led to players reaching tiers much higher than they should have. Existing skill ratings have been recalculated based on recent match history, but it may still take a few more matches for the tiers to be fully adjusted.
        Fixed another (more subtle) bug that made CA skill ratings drift downward.
        Changed the "Start a Match" form such that it will now re-populate with your previously used settings.
        Fixed a problem preventing match invitations sent through the "Start a Match" interface from actually being delivered.
        Fixed an issue that caused standard players to see a "Go Pro" indicator when joining a match they were invited to.
        Fixed a bug in detecting when guests leave a server, so if you invited three guests in, and one left, getting a new guest in would sometimes be troublesome.
        Added a basic "Format Clan Tag" control option to the Clan Center control panel for Clan Leaders to change the capitalization and colors of their clan tag.
        Changed the clan tag id system. The uniqueness of a clan tag is now defined to include any special characters in it. So [id] is no longer considered the same clan as /id/.
        Added a "Match Size" option in the "Start a Match" interface that lets you control the number of players you want to allow on your server, from 2 to 16 players.
        Fixed a problem where people who changed their email address to include capitalized letters were having problems logging back in.
        Fixed a variety of issues preventing users from logging in due to problems with their forum account.
        We've changed CTF and CA default team sizes to 5v5, and FFA player limit to 12. In the near future we intend to offer better tools for players to control team sizes in the matches they play.
        Fixed missing stats & discrepancies for players who previously had their player nicks renamed.
        Fixed the missing thaw icon in Freeze Tag.


    More coming next week! We have been paying close attention to a lot of the suggestions and reported bugs from the past two weeks. We have several changes currently in progress that were not quite ready for today's release, but we hope to finalize and make available to you next Tuesday. 


------------------------

Site Update - September 14, 2010

    Yesterday we performed a small update. Most of these changes were to our backend system and transparent to site users and players. However, you will now be able to make use of new per-gametype Instagib server browser filters. 


-----------------------------

August 11th changes   2010

    Hi guys! We just deployed a hotfix to resolve some issues that have cropped up since launch, and we thought you'd like to know about them.

    One issue that we've been very concerned about is server capacities. Since we added so much content at launch, our locations with low hardware capacity have been struggling to run games with all public configurations, let alone user-started matches. To resolve this, we've decided to start up different sets of configurations at different locations, to make sure that our dynamic match startup system has room to start more matches as player population increases. Locations with very few hardware resources will only maintain a small number of public servers without tier restrictions (these matches have "Unrestricted Match" where there would otherwise be a skill indicator). Locations with an intermediate level of resources will run some unrestricted matches and some matches at a few skill tiers. Locations with a large amount of resources will run the full suite of configurations at all skill tiers and will probably have more added in the future.

    We will be closely monitoring our resource usage to make sure that we're not hitting capacity limits. We want to make sure there are always public servers available, and also to allow our Pro members to start a match at any location.

    We've also heard the community's feedback on our recent tier changes, and we've done two things in response to this. First, there will now be unrestricted Instagib servers running at all locations. We know that many people use Instagib servers as common meeting grounds for their friends, and would like to allow that to continue. Our locations with larger capacity will still have skill-tier-restricted Instagib configurations for a more matched experience. Second, we've increased the maximum skill tier that players can join by one: now players can join one tier down and three up, instead of the previous one down and two up. This should make it easier for you to play in public games with your friends.

    Lastly, we have deployed a fix for some input problems that our standard Linux users were having when joining a game. If this doesn't resolve your problems, please let us know!

    See you in game! 


-----------------------------

Site Update - September 28, 2010

    Today's update introduces 4 new arenas to QUAKE LIVE, improvements to our Skill Ranking system, and an extension of our existing Invite-to-Match system. Our Premium content Map Pak includes Devilish, a wonderfully Gothic themed map suited for Duel or small teamplay, and three small Clan Arenas including two highly requested Rocket Arena 3 fan-favorites: Somewhat Damaged and Thunderstruck. We hope everyone enjoys the new maps and we look forward to hearing your feedback and continuing to deliver additional content in the near future.

        Premium Maps added:
            Devilish
            Fatal Instinct
            Somewhat Damaged
            Thunderstruck
        Small CA Public Servers: We are now running public Premium servers with smaller default teamsizes, running a mappool of small CA maps to help facilitate 1v1, 2v2 and 3v3 Clan Arena play.
        Skill Ranking & Matchmaking Enhancements: More details in our latest DevBlog!
        Extended Invite System: We now allow every Pro user on a server to invite 3 standard users, instead of limiting 3 Standard users per Premium server.
        Existing Maps updated:
            Asylum
            * Fixed Quad/MH dual spawn in FreezeTag, now only spawns Quad.
            Battleforged
            * Closed the window above the MH to reduce sounds on the map.
            * Removed the bars from the RA overlook and added pedestals to make the jump to the RA Bridge.
            * Moved the RA to the middle of the bridge to make it more dangerous to snag.
            - Deleted some redundant spawns and marked some as initial. Moved a couple of the initial spawns for balance.
            + Added Quad/Invisibility combo to replace GL in all non-Duel gametypes.
            * Switched the PG with a second RL.
            * Moved the Plasma Gun to the RA room.
            * Replaced the mid YA with a GA.
            * Moved the Mid TP exit to between the original RL and the RA.
            * Moved the MG ammo around into the hall between RA and LG.
            + Added another 25 health in the LG room.
            Black Cathedral
            * Fixed the patches in the Undercroft that warped out of shape when using r_subdivisions 80.
            * Aligned the Shotgun on its marker.
            + Added a bit of light to the the curve in the Undercroft Lower.
            Cold War
            * Fixed floating jumppad.
            Dreadful Place
            - 50hp removed from middle corridor
            * 50hp in quad room swaped with 25 hp in upper SG room
            * 25hp moved from RG room to GA room
            * minor structural changes
            - Quad room spawn removed
            * RG room spaw moved a little
            * spawn near YA moved a little
            Dredwerkz
            + Added missing teleporter destination near the high YA.
            Furious Heights
            + Teleporter destination decals added.
            Hektik
            * Minor changes to health and shard positions
            * SG switched with PG
            + 2 additional spawns
            - Several spawns removed from initial spawn selection
            * Added weapclip to fix peculiar collision map issue.
            + Added teleporter destination decals.
            Intervention
            * Fixed 5 texture misalignements near lava & fogpit.
            Japanese Castles
            * Fixed vanishing walls in mid on CA.
            Lost World
            * Fixed quad/health spawn in FT
            Phrantic
            * Changed to a "no railgun" layout
            * Changed the pipework to make the pipe climb easier.
            Purgatory
            * Fixed light in column that wasn't properly sized.
            * adjusted clipping at broken for easier access.
            * adjusted clipping beside Quad for access to broken area.
            * fixed RA JP back beam texture being mis-aligned.
            * fixed RA JP detail trim protruding into MH room through roof.
            * fixed SG+YA area pillar not touching ground.
            * fixed all light flare texture alignments.
            * fixed back face being drawn on metal pillar near upper Quad/RG JP.
            * fixed clip brush incorrectly positioned at YA-SG floor curve.
            * fixed clipping issue at light above MH stairs.
            * fixed mis-aligned patch textue beside QUad SG.
            * fixed mis-aligned texture on skylight trim at RA-window area.
            * fixed mis-aligned texture on skylight trim at basement->RG-JP area.
            * fixed mis-scaled texture on patch at exit of RA water corridoor.
            * fixed poorly positioned brush at curve beside Quad.
            * fixed various mis-aligned textures.
            * fixed z-fighting beside RA pillars in water corridoor.
            * lowered RA-window ceiling area so it's less visible from RA ceiling area.
            * moved end vertical beam at RA to allow players through gap.
            * raised RA roof area slightly.
            * raised RG roof area slightly.
            * raised roof in ** back corner room slightly.
            * re-rotated Q bridge wooden planks & MH fallen plank to round rotation values to hopefully fix texture alignment loss.
            * reclipped every concave patch to match lowest detail patches.
            * tweaked Hints at Portal area.
            + added 2 x 5hp at RA window.
            + added 25HP at Quad Broken.
            + added another hint at upper RL.
            + added clipping to some convex patches that had none.
            + added grate below 50hp at **.
            + added hint at MH->Q JP.
            + added hint at RJ-JP.
            + added top trims to skylights at **/Q/RJ-JP/YA-SG.
            + clipped all banners/flags, except those at **.
            + clipped around RA+RG windows for easier RJing into them.
            - removed 1 spawn at RA.


----------------------------

Site Update - October 12, 2010

    The QUAKE LIVE team has just completed a web service update to address a few minor outstanding issues as well as introduce a new feature to Pro users' 'Start-a-Match' functionality.

    Since the initial launch in August we have heard numerous requests to allow Pro users to launch 'standard servers' so that they may easily play with any given number of non-subscribers friends. As of tonight, all Pro users can do just that. To further improve accessibility, all public servers launched via Start-a-Match (unpassworded servers with match visibility set to 'all players') will now appear in the default public match browser. Only servers launched with a password or friend/invite requirements will be filtered to the private match browser. We hope this makes it easier for everyone to get a game underway, and we hope you enjoy the changes.

    Web changes:

        Start a Match configuration option added – ‘Membership Level’. You may now alter the required membership level, allowing you to launch ‘Standard Servers’ that non-subscribers may join.
        Start a Match launched public servers will now appear in the default 'public' match browser..
        Fix: The missing time-remaining timer on the match browser server hovers has been restored.
        Fix: IE javascript issue resolved.
        Fix: Improved error handling on account registration page.


-----------------------------

Site Update - August 31, 2010

    Today's update is most notably to address the request and concerns of players who have expressed interest in playing with specific team sizes in team gametypes, such as the ability to play 2v2 Clan Arena, 2v2 Team Deathmatch or 4v4 CTF. Now, up to 16 players may join any game server and the active teamsize will determine how many of those players may participate in the match. This allows you, the players, to decide what you like to play (and more room for spectators to fill in the gaps when players drop)!

    While everyone is having fun trying out the new teamsize options, you'll notice that we now display a teammate's health and armor status when you hover your crosshair over them so that you may easily identify which teammates need additional health, armor, or assistance. So no more excuses! Be sure to leave that armor for your team's flag carrier who so badly needs it!

    This week's changelog includes:

        Added 'teamsize' options in team gametypes. Players can now 'callvote teamsize #' to adjust the size of teams in team gametypes (TDM, CA, CTF, FT). Issuing 'callvote teamsize 4' will result in a 4 available player slots per team, team sizes are now shown on the scoreboard.
        Added cg_drawCrosshairTeamHealth (Default 1, min 0, max 1) Displays a teammates health and armor below their name when you hover your crosshair over them.
        Added cg_drawCrosshairNames 2 (Default 1, min 0, max 2) The new '2' option allows you to draw crosshairnames only for your teammates, enemy names will not pop-up. This option is available in the in-game menu under HUD Options->Target Names.
        Added cg_drawCrosshairNamesOpacity (Default 0.75, min 0, max 1) Controls the opacity of the player names displayed when using cg_drawCrosshairNames 1 or 2.
        Added cg_playerLean (Default 1, min 0, max 1) Scales or disables the player lean effect caused by high velocities.
        Added 'gamepad' configuration control section & basic Microsoft XBOX 360 Controller support.
            In the console set 'in_joystick 1' to enable gamepad support.
            If you experience that you are unable to move, set 'in_joyballscale 1'.
        Added Discover card support for every region that uses USD. (We know, we know, PayPal support work is underway!)
        Fixed a problem causing standard Linux users to sometimes crash on startup.
        Fixed missing weapon icon on teamoverlay.
        Players removed from clans will no longer still bear the clan tag previously associated with them.
        Fixes for clantags from not getting properly cleared when a player leaves the server.
        Fixed some problems that would occasionally cause the browser-side error detection to cause client performance problems.
        Fixed reported switch/quit match stat errors. Changes have been made to the backend to better handle team switches and quits; additionally players that rejoin after having dropped from the server should now show up on the scoreboard instead of on the quit list. Oddities may persist in Freeze Tag and will be addressed in the near future.
        Fixed missing Vertical Vengeance & Industrial Accident reports. Changes have been made to the backend to ensure that matches occurring on these two maps will now report match stats.
        Updated IEM5 Map tags to reflect the recent Intel Extreme Masters 5 map pool changes.
        If you select the "All populated" option in the match browser under "Game State", it will now include full matches.
        PRO: Fixed 'Start a Match' map cycles. A bug was preventing user spawned servers from cycling past the first map; map cycles now work as expected.
        PRO: Freeze Tag matches started with Instagib mode will now run without spawn armor, and with thaw time set to 1 second.
        PRO: An arena will be selected by default for each gametype in the Start a Match interface.
        PRO: You can now choose the number of players allowed per team when starting a team game.

    Next week we plan on having another small update with additional fixes and features, followed soon after by our first major Premium content update in mid-September. 


----------------------------

Site Update - November 2, 2010

    Tonight's update is a transparent update that should have no visible impact on gameplay as two exploits recently brought to our attention have been resolved. Thanks to all users who discretely reported the issues and participated in the testing process.

    We appreciate everyone's patience during this important downtime. 


-----------------------

Site Update - November 9, 2010

    We have applied two fixes this evening to addressing some outstanding website issues.

        The 'Play' join button has been fixed so that you may once again join passworded servers without an invite.
        Upon leaving a match, you will once again properly return to the server match browser.





---------------------------------


Site Update - November 23, 2010

    Today's update covers a handful of website issues that have cropped up since the last update and beyond. It has already been applied; you may need to reload the site to load the latest web files. If issues persist, try clearing your cache, and forcing the browser to reload by using CTRL+F5 on Windows/Linux, or CMD+SHIFT+R on Mac OS.

    Web Updates:

        Join URL shows up properly in the address bar and in the header when running the game in windowed mode.
        Fixed wrong clan showing up in profiles.
        Fixed players disappearing when promoting/demoting.
        Site News sidebar does not try and open in new window.
        Changed allowed characters when creating clans.
        Fixed Live Match tooltip close button disappearing under certain conditions.
        Fixed site checking for browser compatibility after wrong password attempt.
        Fixed callvote options disappearing when choosing standard servers.
        Fixed timestamps in chat showing up incorrectly after switching or closing conversations.
        Fixed database error handling reporting.


-----------------------------

Site Update - November 16, 2010

    Today's update, QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 4, introduces 2 new arenas to QUAKE LIVE, 20 new premium awards, and our first of many advanced server options. While many changes are still planned for our new advanced server options, we hope that everyone enjoys the new level of freedom that we are now offering to Pro subscribers, the Premium players, and the Standard users whom we hope you invite to Premium servers to check out the content before upgrading!

    Premium Maps Added:

        Evolution (Small CA):

            This small Rocket Arena 3 level crafted by Till Merker, author of Thunderstruck and Theatre of Pain, is an instant classic. Two open platforms at the top level provide light cover from direct fire, while a teleporter at the bottom of the map allows quick access to high ground. If you get caught at the bottom, you can attempt to make an escape toward the tunnels in the back of the map, but be careful that your opponent does not get the drop on you through the jumppad shaft in the back. Evolution is best played in Small Clan Arena, with up to 4 players.

        Three Story (Small CA):

            This small Rocket Arena 3 level crafted by Mike Burbidge, author of Japanese Castles, has received a fresh coat of paint, and looks better than ever. A large building houses two jump pads to bring you up to the synonymous third story of the level. Here you are connected to perilous catwalks, which are especially dangerous with our new Premium Damage Through Floors match setting enabled. If the enemy has taken the high-ground, don't give up yet, as a tunnel wraps around the outer edge of the arena, leading into a building and up a level giving you position to mount an attack on any fortified position. Like Evolution, Three Story is best played in small Clan Arena matches.

    Web Updates:

        New advanced server launch features: Customize your premium match in more ways than before. Toggle power-ups, runes, damage through floors, ramp jumping, change gravity, weapon switch speed, and quad damage factor. More server settings will be available in future updates.
        20 New Premium Awards: Premium and Pro users now have 20 new awards to set their sights on.
        Added Awards to Recognize Past Events: QuakeCon 2008, 2009, 2010; DreamHack Summer 2010; IEM5 NA, IEM5 Gamescom
        New employee awards for playing alongside the Quake Live staff.
        Fixed Default Values: Found and resolved the issue that was causing some default values to be improperly set. New users or existing users who use the 'Reset Settings Defaults' will now have the correct default values for: autoswitch, color1, color2, forceEnemyModel, fov, hitbeep, sensitivity, and rate.
        Changed training process: The once-mandatory match against Crash has been completely removed. New players are now placed in an assessment period before skill matching begins to take place.
        Various back-end changes to improve search-engine visibility and optimizations. This will eventually allow Google and other search engines to index the whole site, including player profiles.



    Notable Map Updates:

        Inner Sanctums - Added ceiling supports to lower red entrance hall, that existed only on blue side.
        Overkill - Fixed clipping in teleporter side hall that could cause players to get stuck.
        Purgatory - Restored missing 50hp at **, Fixed columns at RA
        Retribution - Fixed a clip in the 'back hallway' that could cause players to get stuck.
        Sacellum - Fixed & relaxed clipping near building rooftops.
        Solid - Fixed misaligned and misplaced textures.
        Window Pain - Fixed issue that was causing RL to not spawn


    Infrastructure Changes:

        We have migrated our database over to an entirely new back-end system. This should not affect site functionality, and everything should work as it did before.
        Various back-end daemons have been brought out of the database into their own subsystems for scalability.


-----------------------


Site Update - December 2, 2010

    Tonight's update is due to a change in our in-game ad provider. In-game ads will now (once again) be supplied by IGA Worldwide. This transition is mostly transparent to the end-user. The vast majority of today's changes were minor code changes made for development purposes. We currently have the next content update scheduled for Tuesday, December 14th, which includes the majority of our new content and bug fixes that has been in development.

    Backend Changes

        Saving of Settings & Binds across sessions has been re-enabled.
        Configuration changes to our primary DB to improve performance and better handle loads which have recently resulted in site outages.


    Code Changes

        Integrated IGA Worldwide in-game ads.
        Chat lines are now limited to 72 characters per message to prevent chat from overflowing/becoming unreadable.
        Formatting fixes made to say_team chat.
        Added 'cg_chatHistoryLength' (Default 6, <0-24>) to adjust how many lines of chat history are displayed while chatting or viewing the chat history.
        Added 'con_background' (Default 1, <0|1>) to toggle the background image present on the console.
        Added 'con_height' (Default 0.5, <0.1-1.0>) to toggle the height of the console dropdown.
        Added 'con_opacity' (Default 0.75, <0.1-1.0>) to adjust the opacity of the console when the console background is disabled.
        Added 'con_speed' (Default 3, <0.1-1000>) to adjust the speed in which the console lowers and raises.
        Increased max allowed aliases from 64 to 128
        Small formatting fixes made to the weaponBar when displayed on the right-hand side (cg_weaponBar 2).


    Map Changes

        Minor fixes and improvements to Base Seige, Beyond Reality, Courtyard, Dueling Keeps, Intervention, Shining Forces, Space CTF, Stronghold, and Troubled Waters.


    Dec. 1st Web Changes

        Resolved the main cause of Linux crashes upon launching into a server that have cropped up in the most recent patch.
        Fixed award percentages showing up incorrectly.
        Fixed friends showing up as online 1 minute ago.
        Fixed formatting issue with Freezetag stats.
        Fixed formatting issue in Game Manual.
        Fixed RSS link on Site News.
        Resolved potential issue where navigating away from a match detail scoreboard, and then clicking back would show an error page. If this is still seen, please report it so we can look into it further.
        Optimized front page slideshow images for file size.


----------------------------------------


Site Update - October 26, 2010

    Today's update, QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 3, introduces 4 new arenas to QUAKE LIVE, chat tokens, FreezeTag adjustments and minor physics and weapon changes:

    Premium Maps Added:

        Finnegan’s (CTF):

            Another classic CTF arena from the earliest days of Threewave and our friends "Casey" and "Zoid." Like ‘Bloodlust’ and ‘Courtyard’, Finnegan’s was originally created and released in late 1999 as part of a 3-pack of CTF maps for the original QUAKE III Arena. Finnegan’s is the smallest of the three maps, designed for 8-10 players. This level provides fast paced action through well crafted tight hallway routes that run both high and low between two fog-pit protected flag rooms. This arena has been a long-time highly requested favorite, and welcome its addition to the QUAKE LIVE CTF arena rotation with open glowing arms.

        Gothic Rage (DUEL):

            This dreary three story gothic abode encourages close range combat as players spiral about its three atriums and narrow corridors. Great for Duel, Free for All, and small team-play, Gothic Rage is reminiscent of original old-school Quake deathmatch arenas.

        Solid (2v2 TDM):

            Originally designed for fast and fun 2v2 matches, this Challenge ProMode Arena classic by “swelt” also offers some great opportunities for cat-and-mouse style Duels. Highly adaptive to varying gameplay styles, we expect this ‘solid’ piece of work to shine in 2v2 Team Deathmatch, Duel, Freeze Tag and Clan Arena.

        Window Pain (Small CA):

            This small Rocket Arena 3 level crafted by Adam Bellefeuille is a sibling to the recently released map, ‘Somewhat Damaged’. In Window Pain, 2-6 players fight for map control as they are partially separated by two retractable panes of glass in this simple but elegant two-room design. A favorite amongst many RA3 Duel Arena fans, we look forward to bringing this classic back to life.

    Web Updates:

        Fixed password prompt for privately launched servers preventing users from easily joining passworded matches. (Play Button Fix)
        Added a new pre-roll video ad player for standard user's match joins.


    Code Updates:

        Added Chat Tokens for Subscribers. Works on online servers when used in 'Team Say' messages:
            #h - Current health value
            #a - Current armor value
            #w - Current weapon & ammo count
            ## - To print the character '#'
        Added Chain Jumping (Small acceleration boosts gained by performing closely timed sequences of jumps).
        Added 'Thaws' to the in-game and end-game scoreboard in FreezeTag
        Added AutoThaw in FreezeTag, frozen players now auto-thaw after 120 seconds.
        Added thaw tick sound in FreezeTag.
        Added cg_drawCrosshairTeamHealthSize upon request, to allow you to set the font size (between 0.10f and 0.26f) of the teammate health/armor read-out on teammate crosshair hovers.
        Added 'find' command to substring (case-sensitive) search the console history
        Changed FreezeTag such that Quad & Battle Suit power-ups do not persist across FT rounds.
        Changed the nailgun to now fire 10 nails @ 12 damage each (instead of 15nails x 8dmg).
        Changed the nailgun spread from 500 to 400.
        Changed the nail speed from 900 to 1000.
        Changed Flight power-up into a holdable jetpack, hold the 'use' key to boost.
        Changed Quad factor from 4x to 3x.
        Changed Spectator CompHud Scoreboard highlight color, it (yellow) proved illegible on most streams and projections for Duel. I've kept the use of cg_team_colorized in team gametypes, but now use a higher contrast gray in non-team gametypes.
        Changed Stepheight from 18 to 22.
        Changed the default 'rate' value from 8000 to 16000, now restrict its range from 8000 to 25000.
        Fixed hitching that would occur when connection was lost to the XMPP network.
        Fix for telefrags not killing spawn protected players in instagib (which resulted in them becoming invulnerable, instead of telefragged).
        Fix for double countdown in FreezeTag.
        Fixed alias command string limit getting truncated to 64 instead of the full 256 characters.
        Fixed cg_forceEnemyModel defaults to now properly load "keel/bright".
        Fixed old qzdm3 demos to now properly redirect to 'hearth' instead of 'arenaofdeath'
        Fixed bot item knowledge, bots should better time items.


    Notable Map Updates:

        Almost Lost (Team location information added)
        Base Siege (Replaced Invincibility with Regen)
        Hidden Fortress (Team location information added)
        Purgatory (Swapped RG w/ SG near **, Moved ** RL closer to **)
        Somewhat Damaged (Removed missing ambient sound)
        Thunderstruck (Now cloudy with a 40% chance of precipitation)
        Trinity (Fixed mh/quad spawn in FT)



--------------------------------

Site Update - December 1, 2010

    Today's update covers another batch of small web bugs, and has already been applied. Some changes may not appear until you reload the page and clear the browser cache. Force the browser to reload by using CTRL+F5 on Windows/Linux, or CMD+SHIFT+R on Mac OS. The specific game launch Linux crash (XGrabPointer) should be resolved, so we hope our Linux users will be able to play again. The full list of changes for those who are interested is reproduced underneath.

    Also of note, is the long-awaited returning of stats from the earlier downtime. Yesterday, we started to insert the stats back into the database at a rate of around 8 games per second. We encountered a problem with telefrags, and have had to temporarily pause reuploading. That issue has since been resolved, and the replay process should be continuing over the course of the day.

    Web Changes

        Resolved the main cause of Linux crashes upon launching into a server that have cropped up in the most recent patch.
        Fixed award percentages showing up incorrectly.
        Fixed friends showing up as online 1 minute ago.
        Fixed formatting issue with Freezetag stats.
        Fixed formatting issue in Game Manual.
        Fixed RSS link on Site News.
        Resolved potential issue where navigating away from a match detail scoreboard, and then clicking back would show an error page. If this is still seen, please report it so we can look into it further.
        Optimized front page slideshow images for file size.


------------------------


Web Only Update - January 13, 2011

    Today's update is a web only update. No changes have been made to the game client at this time, and will still occur at a later date. The update has already been applied and requires no action on your part.

    The primary purpose of this update is to attempt to resolve the CAPTCHA issues that some of our new players have been seeing, preventing them from registering. In addition to this, we've also made a few changes in our clan system, namely unifying clan viewing (which was introduced last update) with clan management. Now, all clan related operations can be done from your clan's summary page. If you are able to modify a setting, you will see a link appear by the appropriate item.

    Web Changes:

        Replaced CAPTCHAs across the site. This should decrease the issues new players have had with registering.
        Fixed issue that would cause URL rewriting to not work on IE with certain old bookmarks (b.activeModule error)
        Retired "Control Panel" inside the clan page. All clans are now managed from the clan's roster, which is linked to in your clan list.
        Changed format of URL for clan profile pages to work around clans using special characters (/ and ?) If you are using a bookmark to reach a clan, you will need to recreate it.


    Award Fixes:

        Premium award "Punch Out" was only being earned on the second to last kill instead of the last.
        Premium award "Nade Spam" was only being earned on the second to last kill instead of the last.


--------------------------


Site Update - December 14, 2010

    Today's update, QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 5, introduces 3 new Premium Arenas to QUAKE LIVE, 2 Holiday Arenas, and new Premium Duel Scoreboards.

    Premium Maps Added:

        Double Impact (CTF):

            "Double Impact" comes to us from Pawel "ShadoW" Chrapka, who originally made a variant of the map for the Quake 2 engine based project Quake2World. This is his third map in QUAKE LIVE, previously releasing "Leviathan" and "Dreadful Place." Double Impact features two large winding bases with many routes in and out. It's most distinctive features are a disconnected room in the middle only accessible via teleporter that holds a Red Armor, and a set of spikes near the top flag room entrance that trap anyone inside, forcing them out into the flag room.

        Overlord (Terra CTF):

            Based on Team Arena's most popular terrain map, "Overlord" brings us back the battle between two feuding castles. Newly renovated and reinforced, two gothic castles lie at either end of a mountain pass surrounded by the walls of a green valley. Players can speed through the valley, picking up a multitude of items, powerups, and holdables. When you grow tired of enemies stealing your flag and speeding out, use the mountainsides to make sure none shall pass, or grab our new jetpack-style Flight holdable and rain down sweet flaming revenge from the 3rd dimension.

        Tornado (TDM/CA/FT):

            Another beautiful arena from the designer of "Hektik", comes the new level "Tornado", forecast to become a modern day classic. Tornado features three main areas. The main room consists of two large curved walkways with a Megahealth at the bottom. The Battle Suit room is reminiscent of "The Bad Place" from QuakeWorld, with a walkway built over a lava pool, causing searing pain to those who suffer a little too much knockback. Finally, the Quad Damage room is flanked by a small pool of water, punishing players trying to take a shortcut to the Quad. In a whirlwind of swooping passageways themed in warm and cool, Tornado brings fast paced action that is bound to lift you out of your seat.

    Holiday Maps Added:

    Ho, ho, ho! The holidays are upon us, and Santa has brought each of you a special present! For the next three weeks enjoy our Holiday Arenas, including free Freeze Tag on Winter's Edge, and earn this season's holiday award - "Winter Nights". During this time, Santa himself will be a playable character model on all servers (selectable within the in-game player model menus).

        Silent Night (Terra CTF):

            Back by popular demand is "Silent Night", a holiday-themed remake of the popular arena "Distant Screams" from Team Arena. A vast mountainous winter wonderland, explore Silent Night's tundra landscape alongside eleven teammates for some chilling 12v12 Capture the Flag combat.

        Winter's Edge (FFA/FT):

            Hailed by many as the greatest deathmatch map in Quake 2, "The Edge" makes a holiday appearance in Quake Live as "Winter's Edge". All players now have a chance to enjoy this timeless classic in both Free for All and Freeze Tag.

    Web Updates:

        Clan Profiles - Click on a person's clan tag from their profile page to view the clan's basic information and roster. This section will be further expanded in future updates, and will eventually also handle clan management.
        New awards added for DreamHack Winter 2010, MSI Fnatic Beat-IT, and the Winter Holiday 2010.
        Spawn Protection is currently being forced off from all pro-user launched servers. The option has been removed until we address the outstanding issue/exploit.


    Code Updates:

        New Premium Duel Scoreboards - Available to Premium users online, and all players in offline bot matches, the first of our new Premium Scoreboards brings a wide range of match stat data to the in-game experience including per-weapon accuracy, damage, and frags, item pick-up tallies, average item pick-up times.
        Added Santa model for use during the holidays, selectable within the in-game player model menus.
        IGA ad system fixes and improvements.
        Lightning styles now use lightmapped quality effects, regardless of r_vertexlight value.
        Added r_mapOverbrightCap (Default 255, <0-255>): Allows you to cap the brightness of surfaces brightened by r_mapOverbrightBits (Most useful when using high values of r_mapOverBrightBits; vid_restart required after a value change).


    Map Updates:

        Asylum, Japanese Castles, House of Decay, Siberia, Trinity, and Quarantine: These maps have had lighting adjusted while in Vertex Lighting mode.
        Battleforged: Removed grenade ammo in TDM
        Japanese Castles: Fixed ad-wallhack-bug
        Purgatory: Swapped RG/SG placements
        Retribution: Added anti-camping measures for the portal room in CA, and fixed nonsolid metal supports
        Solid: Replaced CG with LG in non-FFA gametypes
        Space CTF: Fixed upper ledges so that you no longer step over them.

Reply With Quote Reply With Quote
12-14-2010 06:08 PM #2
SyncError
SyncError is offline
Producer SyncError will become famous soon enough SyncError will become famous soon enough SyncError's Avatar

Join Date
    Aug 2010
Posts
    1,667	

    Servers in United Kingdom, Poland, Argentina, and Korea were unresponsive during our update process and were unable to receive the new update assets. We will bring these servers back online once they have been properly updated.

    UPDATE: 12/15 (sponge): Argentina and Chile should now be coming back online. We will be checking periodically on the other servers to see if assets can be successfully synced up.

    UPDATE: 12/17 (sponge): Poland is now online. UK is currently down due to hardware failure, and will be up as soon as we can manage to restore the server.

    UPDATE: 12/21 (sponge): Korea is now back online. 


----------------------------------

Site Update - February 2, 2011

    Today's update, QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 6, introduces 3 new Premium Arenas to QUAKE LIVE, a resolution to the recent hitching that has occurred when leaving the game, improvements to the Duel experience (including persistent duel queues and scoreboard fixes), and adjustments to weapon balance within Team Deathmatch.

    Premium Maps Added:

        Concrete Palace (Duel):

            From the Pawel Chrapka, author of "Leviathan" and "Dreadful Place", comes a new creation inspired by one of his earlier works. Concrete Palace is a masterful midsized duel arena with one primary atrium connected to itself by a slew of teleporters and small halls.

        Dies Irae (TDM):

            Aptly named for the thirteenth century Latin hymn (Day of Wrath) and also from Pawel Chrapka, Dies Irae is a superb Team Deathmatch, Clan Arena, and FreezeTag arena. The level encompasses a large central hub room that is home to Quad, a floating platform, and a teleporter exit that has been caged off prior to opening. Great fun, recommended for 8-10 players.

        Skyward (CTF):

            Based on an original open-sourced design by the Q3 Community mapper 'ButterB', Skyward is a clean and stylish 'space map' set high up in the sky. There three elaborate floating platforms set the stage for a well-balanced mix of cover and open-air combat. With plenty of armor, rockets, and plasma at your disposal, the railgun plays a much smaller role in Skyward combat than typical for a space map, leading to more close range fighting while still having to worry about long range enemy sniper fire. Recommended for 4-8 players.

    Game Updates:

        Fixed the quit lag/delay: Hitching on Windows systems will no longer occur when leaving the game. Furthermore, fixes have been made to properly shutdown the games sound system prior to quitting so that looped sounds cannot occur when leaving the game.
        New Persistent Duel Play Queue:
        The duel queue now persists properly across map changes. Your position in the queue is also shown on the scoreboard.
        Shotgun Pattern Calculation:
        Shotgun now fires in a fixed pattern on the server, what little per-pellet spread used to exist is now purely a client-side visual effect. 'cg_trueShotgun' cvar (default 0), when enabled will show the pattern that the server uses for collision when enabled, while 0 will keep the original behavior.
        Minor Shotgun Balancing:
        All pellets for the shotgun will now do 5 damage (still 20 pellets, now 100 dmg total) in most gametypes. Spread has been increased from 900 to 1000.
        Team Deathmatch Weapon Balancing:
        Machineguns and Shotguns both now do 4 damage per bullet in Team Deathmatch to reduce their dominance.
        New Draw Item Pickup Multiplier:
        When a series of items are picked up, such as shards or 5hp bubbles, the Draw Item Pickup notification will now include a multiplier. (Works on all items, except power-ups.)
        Fixed Player Head Bug:
        The correct head skin will be displayed for players whose personal model was set to a non-default player skin.
        Fixed Team Balance Bug:
        Matches won't start if teams are unbalanced by 2 players, instead of 3.
        Fixed UnnamedPlayer Exploit:
        Addressed various conditions that could result in a player losing his name and becoming UnnamedPlayer. Players will also now be kicked if their name gets changed to UnnamedPlayer.
        Fixed Admin 'put' Command in Duel:
        No longer allow admin cmds to 'put' players onto the red or blue team in Duel, allow the choice of free or spec in non-team gametypes.
        Fixed 'dropflag' Command During a Pause:
        Players may no longer issue the 'dropflag' command while a match is paused or in a timeout.
        Added 'cg_itemFx' cvar:
        Change how items are rendered in the world. Default 7. 1 = bounce, 2 = rotate, 4 = scale when spawning
        Added 'cg_simpleItemsRadius' cvar:
        Scale size of the icons when Simple Items is enabled.
        Added 'cg_lightningImpactCap' cvar:
        Change the size of the lightning impact effect when impact is closer than x units, default 96 units.
        Fixed Janet's Mipped Hair, the player model's hair will no longer improperly mip when picmip is used.
        Game no longer crashes when attempting to 'give' an invalid item.
        Slightly better flag positioning and image quality despite ignoring its proper aspect ratio.
        Improved flag images, no longer get scaled on scoreboard. (only a slight improvement)
        Fixed lightning stream bug that existed in third person while truelightning was enabled.
        Fixed Premium scoreboard display when a player goes into spectator, forfeiting the match.
        Reduced 'flag bounce' by half for dropped CTF flags.
        Various maps and other graphical assets have had textures optimized for filesize/bandwidth usage, resulting in a smaller download.



    We've also added a few quick cvars that may be more of interest to movie makers:

        Added 'r_fastSkyColor' cvar:
        Change the color of the sky when using fastsky (default 0x000000) This can be used in order to create a green screen to film against.
        Added 'cg_smokeRadius_dust' cvar:
        Scale size of smoke plume in ground dust
        Added 'cg_smokeRadius_flight' cvar:
        Scale size of smoke plume in flight trail
        Added 'cg_smokeRadius_haste' cvar:
        Scale size of smoke plume in haste trail



    Web Updates:

        Premium spawns will spawn and will only cycle through premium maps. Standard maps can still be callvoted as normal.
        Changed sorting of server list, non-player launched premium servers should appear at the top.
        Added timeout length and timeout amount to Start a Match controls. These are available under the Advanced Configuration.
        Added frag limit, time limit, capture limit, and round limit to Start a Match controls. These are available under the Advanced Configuration.
        Added damage dealt and damage received to match stats on website.



    Map Updates:

        Double Impact: Additional clipping added to walls in RA room.
        Intervention: Teleporter trigger extended.
        Ironworks: Fixed clipping on curved wall between pg and medkit.
        Focal Point: Fixed unclipped ceiling, Fixed t-junction-like sparkles.
        Overlord: Fixed 3 50HP bubbles that were stuck in the ground.


--------------------------------

Site Update - Social Features   2011-02-17

    We've added a few minor features to the site, something that some of users will surely... like!

    Facebook "Like" and Twitter "Tweet" buttons have been added to all player profiles and clan pages, allowing some integration with the Facebook and Twitter social networks. Tweet your clan, like your friends, or let your whole social network know that you indeed do like yourself!

    The Like buttons were turned on last evening, and as far as we can tell Cooller is currently in the lead with 18 likes, while fellow professional player rapha has 10 to his name. Yours truly has 8 likes, while Associate Producer SyncError somehow has 9. This developer suspects shenanigans are afoot with that last result. 


---------------------------------------

August 8th Changes

    In an effort to improve the communication between the QUAKE LIVE development team and community, we will be providing more regular posts to the DevBlog section of the QUAKE LIVE forums. These posts will be used to discuss recent changes, upcoming plans, and other relevant development topics.

    Latest changes since launch:

    European Payment Processing LIVE!
    We've enabled payment processing support for our players in Europe. This will support all players in the Eurozone and the United Kingdom. Players in these areas can now purchase QUAKE LIVE subscriptions in many different ways, from standard credit cards to Direct Debit (Germany only).

    Note: We had to disable support for Maestro cards temporarily, but hope to have support for them again within a week.

    "Service Communication Failure" issues
    We're working through the "Service Communication Failure" errors that people will occasionally get at login. This is a general message for an array of problems that can occur when trying to log into the site. We've already deployed one hotfix to reduce these issues, and will be deploying another within the next 24 hours to further reduce the situations where this can occur.

    Clan Tags
    It has become clear to the development team since launch that our limitations on the uniqueness of a clan tag are too restrictive, so we plan to address this in a future patch. Our intention here is to make it so that the uniqueness of a clan tag is defined by all the characters used in it (except for color codes). Once we deploy this change then the clan [id] will no longer be the same as the clan {id}}>, for example.


    The whole QUAKE LIVE team is thrilled to have the new site launched and out there for the world to play. We're looking forward to continually improving QUAKE LIVE to truly make it the best online shooter!



    Additional Changes:

        Fixed a problem where certain browsers would complain about "Scripts running too slow" when browsing QUAKE LIVE. This was in large part due to the quantity of game servers that were being displayed to the client in the Match Browser, so we've reduced the maximum number of matches that can be visible at a time in the Match Browser to 50.
        Fixed an issue where select players who had been part of the private server beta testing group were unable to log in reliably.
        Fixed problems where orders would be rejected by the payment system due to data that was too long being entered into payment fields. Each field should now have length limitations in order to prevent this class of error.
        Fixed a problem where matches weren't starting up for Pro players who chose to start their match in the 'In My Vicinity' location.
        Fixed a problem where users with less than 3 characters in their name were unable to login.
        Fixed a problem where polls were being rendered improperly on the forums.


----------------------------

Site Update - March 15, 2011

    Today's update, QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 7, introduces 2 new Premium Arenas to QUAKE LIVE, adjustments to our hit detection, expansions to our social networking features, the ability to assign your own country flag (for use on profile and in-game), tier info displays on player profiles, and due to popular request - a fun killBeep option for premium & pro users.

    Premium Maps Added:

        Toxicity (Duel):

            Created by Alexander Mader, Toxicity is an enclosed Duel map with a distinctive look. Twisting halls and teleporters provide ample escape, as long as you watch out for the namesake pools of toxic acid in the main rooms of this arena. Own the world, or at least your opponent, and spread disorder by knocking them around with some rockets. Bounce them well, and you can treat yourself to a Red Armor, while they suffer some unfortunate burns.

        Distant Screams (CTF):

            Formerly known as the perennial favorite Silent Night, we've torn down the Christmas decorations as to not look like that weird house down the street lit up well into March. Thankfully, it hasn't warmed up enough to melt the ice that covers vast swathes of the level, allowing massive acceleration throughout the frozen tundra terrain. Everything else is still mostly as you remember it, from the grenade traps to the secret button that dispenses health. Wait, that's supposed to be a secret...

    Game Changes:

        Kill Beep for Premium players:
        Enabling cg_killBeep will play a distinct sound when you score a kill in any mode. Options are available in the in-game Game Options->Advanced->Sound Options menu.
        Increased size of hit cylinders:
        Increased hittable region of players by 10% to more closely mimic the area of the old cuboid region.
        Increased damage of Shotgun in Team Deathmatch:
        Increased damage of Shotgun back to 100 to match the Shotgun in other modes.
        Improved arena download system:
        Download size for Standard players reduced by about 50% by not downloading premium content until the player joins a server running the arena. This also means these maps will be unavailable in Practice mode for Standard users. Premium and Pro users will still download all content as they did before.
        Removed some extra dependencies from the Quake 3 master server. ("Please start TA directly")
        Fixed issues where plug-in was downloading certain content twice.
        Added the ability to bind a key to Accuracy (+acc), ScreenshotJPEG to the in-game Contols->Actions menu.
        Fixed issue where scoreboard would show none in the lead with -9999 frags.
        Fixed display issue that would cause items on loading screen to overflow off the screen.
        Fixed Force Weapon Color when using cg_railStyle 2 trails.


    Web Changes:

        Facebook Screenshot uploading:
        Visit Social Settings under the Settings menu to link your Facebook account with QUAKE LIVE. After binding a key from Social Settings, using the new default F11 bind, or manually binding a key to /socialScreenshot, you will be able to take and upload a screenshot directly to Facebook.
        Added tier display to player profiles:
        All players can now view what tiers they are in by clicking the Statistics tab on their profile.
        Added Change Country Flag to Account Settings:
        All players can change what country appears on their profile and in the in-game Premium scoreboards.
        Fix 7th day of matches not showing up under the Matches tab.
        Removed extraneous options from web Advanced Game Options.
        Don't show invites as a friend on the inviting player's friends page
        Added ESL Intel Extreme Masters Season 5 World Championship awards.


    Map Changes:

        Battleforged: Fixed sound issues by removing see-through teleporters.
        Concrete Palace: Swapped Yellow Armor and lower Green Armor, fixed missing lightning ammo.
        Devilish: Fixed patch & LoD issues on curved RA staircase.
        Dies Irae: Fixed floating clip in Mega Health room.
        Double Impact: Clipped structures in Red Armor room, fixed entity not spawning due to being stuck in ground.
        Focal Point: Fixed map appearing all black in vertex lighting mode.
        Skyward: Fixed z-fighting, some additional detail and trim added, updated author credit.
        Tornado: Removed Chaingun, unlocked water trap in TDM, fixed z-fighting, improved several trims, added some clipping.


-------------------------

Site Maintenance April 29, 11:00pm Central Time

    Since our data-center migration on Monday, we've identified some site performance issues related to hardware allocation. In order to improve performance of the main QUAKE LIVE site and forums, we'll be taking the site down at 11:00 PM Central US time to move some services to different hardware and configure some services to take better advantage of the hardware they have. The downtime is expected to last less than two hours. 


----------------------------

Web Update - June 9, 2011

    An update to the QUAKE LIVE web frontend is now online. While the changes are mostly bugfixes, one notable feature is a Premium server filter within the Customize dropdown in the browser. If you haven't yet refreshed your browser, the changes will not be visible, however a simple CTRL+F5, or clicking Refresh while holding down shift will take care of that in a jiffy!

    Web Changes:

        Added a Premium filter under Customize.
        Modified QuickStats to load asynchronously once the browser page loads. This should greatly speed up loading the browser while the site is under heavier load.
        Changed behavior of invalid options in Start a Match. Options that are disabled by the game mode are hidden completely. Options that are disabled by adjusting advanced/unranked settings are grayed out. This will provide a better experience as the page will no longer jump around as you enable/disable options.
        Changed some Start a Match defaults to correctly match what we launch our public servers with.
        Fixed FreezeTag Remove Powerups On Spawn unranked option in Start a Match.
        Enabled system for site administrators to send global messages to all users logged into the site. These will generally be small updates on service status, and to announce impending downtime. These messages are not optional and can not be turned off.
        Prevented cases where the pending invite notice from popping up multiple times upon login.
        Resolved a case on Windows where download indicator would be stuck at 99% despite the download finishing without error.
        Changed server browser phrasing when no matches are shown to be more descriptive.


----------------------------------

Web Update - June 16, 2011

    An update to the QUAKE LIVE web frontend is now online. These changes mainly address profile issues, including a fix for profiles where weapon accuracy values are stuck at 0%. These changes have already been applied, and we recommend refreshing your browser by pressing CTRL+F5, or clicking the reload button while holding down shift to ensure you get the latest data.

    Web Changes:

        Fixed an issue where players playing back demos would appear to other players as playing on a non-existent server. (hover shows unable to find match details error)
        Correctly highlight the player with least damage received, instead of most, in the Match Stats popup.
        Fixed instances of a player's weapon accuracy showing as 0% despite having used the weapon.
        Fixed Gauntlet accuracy showing 0% instead of N/A as it does not count toward your accuracy.
        Added tooltips to weapon accuracies under Statistics to show hits and shots for that individual weapon.
        Fixed various display issues when viewing a new player's profiles that have yet to play a game.
        Fixed various tooltips showing timestamps instead of human-readable dates.
        Added dotted underlines on various profile pages to indicate data is available when hovering over text.
        Fixed various visual issues when viewing profiles while not logged in.


------------------------------


 Site Update - May 31, 2011

    Today's update, QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 8, introduces 2 new Premium Arenas to QUAKE LIVE, new Start-a-Match features for Pro Subscribers and FreezeTag players, new and improved mouse input code, a TeamKill complaint system, an overhauled more flexible InstaGib system, match forfeit options, and a great number of website, game, and server fixes to improve the gameplay experience.

    Premium Maps Added:

        Revolver (Small CA):

            Crafted by Wiebo de Wit, designer of the highly popular 'Overkill' Clan Arena level of RA3 fame, Revolver is a small outdoor chamber with an overhanging grated walkway, a higher ground that holding can prove vital to victory.

        Sorrow (Duel):

            Set in a foreboding dungeon, Sorrow is a brand new arena from Pawel Chrapka that is nicely suited for both Duel and small teamplay when a more strategic and paced style of play is preferred.

    Web Updates:

        Start a Match: Numerous options added, including ability to spawn servers at your skill level (tier).
        Start a Match: Options that are non-default, or will result in an unranked server will be hilighted
        Start a Match: Resolved certain combinations of settings that would result in an unranked server despite all visible options set to their defaults
        Match invites should now work more reliably, especially over map changes.
        Server tool tip hovers now report if a server is Premium, allowing you to identify Premium servers when using the Friends List.
        Accepting a friends request from a player who is actively online will now immediately show them on your friends list. Previously they would not show until their next time to come online.
        Fixed the duplicate friend invite issue.
        Fixed banned profile notices. Banned players will once again have a ban notice on their public profile.
        Weekly match stats now report up to 500 matches, it was previously limited to reporting only the first 100 matches played in any given week.
        Fixed site inactivity timeouts occurring during forum activity.
        Fixed auto-login from failing following an account idle timeout.
        Fixed issue preventing pro users with clan tags that began with a '+' from spinning Start-a-Match servers that others could join.

    General Game Updates:

        Added 'forfeit' command to allow for an early end to a match.
            Available to the losing player in Duel
            Available to the losing player in team gametypes, when one player is left remaining.
            Will end match immediately, note the game is forfeited, and award the loser a 'Loss' instead of a 'Quit'.
        Added a forfeit condition check to all team gametypes. If one team quits, the match will now forfeit and award a win to the remaining team.
        Improved Intermission Delay, the delay has been reduced from 1000ms to 200ms to resolve many issues & complaints about what occurs in the last second of gameplay.
        Added server-side variables that allows us to specify the amount of armor, health, or weapons a player has upon spawning (g_startingArmor, g_startingHealth, g_startingHealthBonus, g_startingWeapons).
        Added the option of a simpler black frame fill rather than the white flash that occurs when teleporting (r_teleporterFlash 0).
        Added an error message to clients when some commands, such as '/kill' are attempted to be used on servers that do not support them.
        Colliding into a wall while running now places the player in a walking animation without footsteps, instead of running in place and producing footsteps. (This is an animation and footstep change only, no change to player speed, physics, or movement is made as a result of this).
        We now disabled firing at the end of warmup during match countdown to raise awareness of the match state transition and reduce accidental movement caused activity during the match countdown.
        Fixed the toggling of 'Next Match' at the end of the match such that spectators can no longer toggle the readyUp status of in-game players.
        Fixed end-game command flooding of spectated clients.
        The end-game scoreboard now has a minimum viewing time of 5 seconds and a maximum viewing time of 15 seconds, dependent on whether players choose to click the 'Next Match' button to minimize viewing time.
        Fixed 3 Player Callvote logic that was allowing a single 'no vote' to make a vote fail.
        Fixed an issue that could generate killbeeps from gibbing player corpses.
        Fixed incorrectly defined FRAMETIME, which has accounted for various bugs or oddness in the game, especially in relation to our triggers (jumppads, movers, buttons, trigger hurts, trigger multiples).
        Fixed floating point imprecision that caused glitching in snapshot rendering.
        Fixed Battle Suit noise spam while wading in lava, sound event is now only triggered every second (damage is however still continuous).
        Fixed starting weapon selection code to ensure that the selected weapon is a weapon that was granted on spawn
        Fixed Default model/skin code. It will now attempt to use the model specified when a valid model but invalid skin is set and ensures that a teamskin is set when in team gametypes.
        Fixed faulty spawnflag behavior issue for trigger_hurts.
        Fixed an issue with railgun while using infinite ammo that prevented the rail trail from displaying.
        Fixed an animation issue that would occur on servers running more than 24 hours that previously could not be resolved without shutting down and relaunching the server.
        Fixed an infostring buffer overflow exploit.
        Fixed an exploit found that could be caused by use of a local command.
        Fixed references to server framerate to correctly account for timescale.
        Fixed AGEN skip code in parse stage of rendering.
        Fixed a typo in a Com_Error message "cientNum > 32" corrected to "clientNum >= 32".
        Fixed fastSky behavior when r_fastSky was set to non-zero, non-one values.
        Fixed Vertexlight issue in map compiling. We will over time be re-releasing the afflicted maps to resolve dark or off-colored vertexlighting issues.

    Duel Updates:

        Relaxed spawn system in Duel such that it now looks at 50% of the furthest away spawn choices with a minimum of 3 choices, instead of 40% with a minimum of 2 choices -- reducing the predictability of where a player may re-spawn.

    Team Deathmatch Updates:

        Added Teamkill Complaint system: When a player is teamkilled they will now be prompted as to whether or not they wish to file a complaint to the server versus the offending teammate. If you feel the TK was intentional, then file a complaint (F1). If it was accidental, then dismiss it (F2). If too many complaints are filed versus a player, the server will ban the player for the server for the remainder of the match.
            Clients may disable the complain/dismiss vote prompt by setting cg_complaintWarning 0.
        Fixed a warmup condition in TDM that allowed you to start a match when no players were present on one of the teams.
        Fixed a warmup condition in TDM that allowed you to start a match with unbalanced teams.

    Clan Arena Updates:

        Fixed CA round behavior when roundtimelimit is set to 0, which will now disable the use of a roundtimelimit rather causing rounds to end immediately upon round start.

    Capture the Flag Updates:

        Fixed capturing the flag during the Intermission Delay bug, you can no longer capture in the last moments of the game after the time/scorelimit was hit.
        Added 'droppowerup' command to allow you to drop a recently picked up power-up to a teammate. Like weapons and flags, the dropped powerup remains available for 10 seconds.
        Added a server-side variable that allows us to configure what drop abilities are permitted (dropflag, droppowerup, dropweapon). (g_dropCmds)

    FreezeTag Updates:

        We now use "You froze" centerprint in FT rather than "You fragged".
        We no longer allow you to thaw teammates through walls.
        Increased thaw radius from 64 units to 96 units.
        Frozen ice blocks now shrink as a player is thawed.
        Added Start-a-Match options for Pro Subscribers:
            'Environmental Respawn Delay', allows you to force a time delay before a player who died from an environmental death (such as jumping into a void) from thawing and respawning.
            'Reset Armor on Round', allows you to force a player's armor value to reset at the end of every round.
            'Reset Health on Round', allows you to force a player's health value to reset at the end of every round.
            'Reset Weapons on Round', allows you to force a player's weapon loadout to reset to the spawn loadout at the end of every round.
            'Thaw Winning Team', allows you to prevent frozen members of the winning team to from instantly thawing at the end of the round, forcing the surviving winners to thaw their own frozen teammates.
            'Thaw Tick', allows you to control the audible thaw sound such that it can be heard by only teammates, all players, or disabled.
            'Enable Round Delay', allows the 4 second round delay to be disabled, allowing for a more action packed fast paced style of FT gameplay.
        Thaw messages are now displayed for players who die due to an environmental death to denote when a player is back in action and no longer considered frozen.
        Fixed Round Draws in FreezeTag. Announcer Voice is back and notifies you when there is a Round Draw. Neither team is awarded any points during a Round Draw, previously red was awarded a point during draws.
        Better handling of telefragging both living and frozen players: If you telefrag a living player, you are awarded a kill, they freeze, and then auto-thaw with no delay. If you telefrag an already frozen player in FT, they will then auto-thaw with no delay.
        Fixed zoomOutOnDeath code in FreezeTag; cannot zoom while frozen.
        Added prediction to triggers for frozen players (smoother triggering of jumppads, teleporters, doors while sliding into them)
        Fixed AutoThawTime behavior so that you may disable autothawing. Previously a g_freezeAutoThawTime 0 would result in an instant thaw upon freezing.

    Instagib Updates:

        Any weapon present in InstaGib now triggers a frag (splash damage excluded).
        Instagib is no longer is restricted to Railgun only, but now works with any weapon defined in g_startingWeapons. This allows us to introduce a great number of new InstaGib modes of play.
        Instagib no longer relies on damage output of any weapon. If damage is received it will gib the player (railgun is no longer forced to 666 damage).
        We now grant infinite ammo for all weapons present in InstaGib
        Extensive overhaul of the InstaGib code to improve logic, performance, and reduce rare issues that could result in players not dying when hit.

    Mouse Code Updates:

        Fixed an issue with in_nograb not being properly defined, that resulted in mouse sensitivity issues and mouse focus issues.
        Reworked mouse accel code to address outstanding issues such as: framerate dependency, a failure to preserve directionality, and misleading offset behavior. Now rather than offering two styles of mouse accel, one without these issue but fewer options and one with more options but known issues, we have now simplified it to one accel scheme that is highly customizable and reliable.
            Added cl_mouseAccelPower // the power of the accel curve, 2 is the default traditional curve.
            cl_mouseAccelOffset now defaults to 0.
        Added optional/alternative sensitivity scheme: Added m_cpi to set mouse DPI so sensitivity can be measured in cm amount. Counts per Inch (CPI/DPI) of your mouse, defaulted off. When enabled (by setting m_cpi to the CPI/DPI of your mouse) it changes sensitivity from a immeasurable number into a precise degrees per cm, ie sensitivity 18 would move you 18 degrees per centimeter of mouse movement, performing a 360 turn in 20 centimeters. More info can be found in our recent DevBlog post.
            Default sensitivity, pitch, and yaw all remain the same. If you do not set m_cpi no changes are necessary to your mouse or sensitivity settings. If you use accel, you no longer need to specify a style of accel. Set your cl_mouseAccel to the desired strength, optionally assign a cl_mouseAccelPower, cl_mouseAccelOffset, or cl_mouseSensCap.
        Sensitivity, m_yaw, and m_filter cvars now replicate (get stored in repconfig.cfg and our database).

    HUD Updates:

        Callvotes now displays proper keybinds for 'vote yes' and 'vote no'.
        Support for Infinite Ammo on weaponBar.
        Support for non-railgun weapons in InstaGib
        Changed frag obituaries to fade out
        Fixed roundtimer display in FT on the official 'Large' HUD.
        Fixed HUD ranks in Duel and FFA.
        Reduced the size of the center print frag message in warmup, to both match the size utilized mid-game as well as prevent center print text from overlapping during warmup.
        Added a 'Watch your fire!' warning to the center print frag message when you kill a teammate.
        Fixed itemPickupTime between map_restarts: Pickup messages will be cleared from the screen on map_restarts and when transferring from Warmup to Match-in-Progress; Can no longer obtain <item> x2 messages from picking up an item in warmup just before match start, and then picking up the same item type within 3 seconds.
        Obituary frag messages are now cleared from the HUD on map_restart.
        Improved the formatting of the low ammo warning centerprint; raised it higher to avoid some overlapping text in warmup.
        Fixed weaponBar weapon registration, so that you no longer have to switch to a weapon before it appears on the weaponBar.
        Fixed an erroneous low ammo warning sound when switching to weapons with infinite ammo.
        Added support for infinite ammo on HUDs.

    GUI Updates:

        Added 'droppowerup' to controls menu.
        Fixed the map order (in callvote menu), Hektik was out of abc order.
        Small fix to scoreboard draw code.

    Dev Console Updates:

        Tab autocompleted cvars will now print their currently assigned value for easy setting lookup.
        Added con_scale (defaults 1.0), lower values result in a smaller font scale being used in the console.
        Cleanup, renamed more obscure cl_contimestamps to con_timestamp
        Cleanup, renamed cl_noprint to con_noprint

    Bot Updates:

        Added 'bot_teamkill'; Activates teamkilling mode where bots disregard what team a player is on when selecting their targets.
        Fixed BotChat_HitTalking MOD (a bot's knowledge of what they were hit with while they were chatting).
        Fixed Bot Characteristic in BotChat_EnemySuicide.
        Fixed actionFlag collision in botlib code.

    Deprecated / Removed Code:

        Removed deprecated cl_mouseAccelStyle.
        Removed deprecated g_freeze cvar (unused).
        Removed deprecated con_notifytime (unused).
        Removed deprecated cl_conXOffset (unused).
        Removed deprecated g_allWeapons, in favor of more versatile g_startingWeapons.
        Removed deprecated g_ca_startingArmor and g_ca_startingHealth, in favor of the new gametype neutral g_startingArmor and g_startingHealth.
        Removed deprecated g_weaponTeamRespawn, referenced only in Team DM, in favor of setting g_weaponRespawn.
        Removed cg_startingammo_mg, we are in the progress of replacing it with a new weapon neutral g_startingAmmo system.

    Map Updates:

        Courtyard - Fixed/balanced rg hall spawn points; lighting fixed in Vertexlight mode.
        Japanese Castles - Fixed/balanced garden spawn points; lighting fixed in Vertexlight mode.
        Ironworks - Lighting fixed in Vertexlight mode.
        Tornado - Lighting fixed in Vertexlight mode.
        Troubled Waters - Fixed/balanced base starting spawn points; lighting fixed in Vertexlight mode.

------------------------

Web Update - June 29, 2011

    An update to the QUAKE LIVE web frontend is now online. Today's changes include a couple of new features: an Arenas tab in your profile that will show wins and losses per arena, and a new advanced list-based server browser, available from within Site Preferences, along with a couple of award changes. These changes have already been applied, and we recommend refreshing your browser by pressing CTRL+F5, or clicking the reload button while holding down shift to ensure you get the latest data.

        Added Advanced Match Browser: A list-based browser can be toggled on through Settings > Account Settings > Change Site Preferences. This is a simplified view of the server list that shows more servers per screen.
        Added Arena Stats: An "Arenas" tab is available on profiles that will show wins, losses, and total games broken down by each arena available. This will give you a quick glance at where you have and haven't played, handy for hunting down some of our awards based on playing in every arena.
        Added progress indicator text to Dynasty award, informing you of when the time limit ends, and how many wins and DNFs you have.
        Changed behavior of Daily Dose award to use a rolling timeframe of the last 28 days rather than a fixed start and end date.
        Friends list will no longer close the chat window when the active contact goes offline.
        Friends list will save scroll position as you go through different pages on the site.
        Fixed link to Technical Support forum in the Plugin Crashed modal popup.
        Resolved an issue that would cause the Arena and Premium match filters to not save.
        Resolved an issue that would cause filters to not always highlight when modified.
        Resolved an issue that would cause an extra day of stats to appear on certain users' Matches tab.
        Resolved an issue on Firefox 5 that would prevent friends from showing up in Start a Match.
        Fixed a very rare case that would cause the site to fail to load with an "Exception thrown without a stack frame" error


----------------------------


Site Update - July 19, 2011

    Today's update, QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 9, introduces 2 new Premium Arenas to QUAKE LIVE, new Premium Team Deathmatch Scoreboards, clan profile updates and fixes, and a number of game fixes to improve the gameplay experience.

    Premium Maps Added:

        Canned Heat (Small CA):

            From Till Merker, author of Thunderstruck, Evolution, and Theatre of Pain, comes Canned Heat the popular mid-sized Clan Arena from Rocket Arena 3. Great for a hectic 4v4s or paced 2v2s, we welcome this classic to Quake Live.

        Wargrounds (FFA, Small Team):

            Wargrounds, which first gathered quite acclaim last summer in the Maverick Servers Quake 3 Mapping Competition, has a wonderous mix of architecture, lava pits, and pools in a Gothic setting. Great for Free for All, and most variants of small team play.

    Web Updates:

        Updated Clan Profile Pages:
            Added Clan Biographies. Clan leaders can add a small bit of text that, similar to profile pages, will be publicly visible on the clan profile page.
            Added country flags to rostered players.
            Added 'Last seen online' and 'Online now!' stats to rostered players. Easily determine who is either online now or has been online recently by looking at a clan's profile.
        Added a Subscriber-only Forum. You will have to log into the main website from your subscriber account once before you are able to access the new forum.
        Fixed View Clan Profile dropdown in My Clans from not bringing you to the correct page.
        Fixed clicking on a clan invitation not bringing you to the clan's profile.
        Added a notification at login for pending clan invites. These can be toggled in Account Settings -> Change Site Preferences -> Show me when I receive new friend or clan invites
        Better error messaging for sending a player a clan invite when they already have one pending.

    General Game Updates:

        Added Premium Team Deathmatch Scoreboards
            Includes TeamDM specific stats, including net frags, damage dealt, average team ping, team power-up pickup counts, and team power-up possession times, as well as country flags and support for clan names.
            Includes a Statistics tab on the end-game scoreboard for additional player specific statistics.
        Added premium cg_quadKillCounter <0|1>
        Added 'mercylimit'.
            In teamgames that have a timelimit set, you may set mercylimit to trigger the match to end if the team score difference (spread) ever becomes greater than or equal to the mercylimit.
            Added 'g_mercytime'. An optional component to mercylimit, in teamgames with timelimits, you may set g_mercytime to the number of minutes of gameplay that must first pass before mercylimit is enforced.
            Added mercylimit to Start-a-Match.
        Added three new admin commands for server owners:
            setmatchtime - If a partial match must be played, an admin may need to set the match time elapsed before the remainder of the match may resume. An admin may use setmatchtime to set the current match time elapsed (in seconds) when a match is in progress.
            addscore - If a partial match must be played, an admin may need to restore a player's score before the remainder of the match may resume. An admin may use addscore to increment or decrement a player's current score when a match is in progress.
            addteamscore - If a partial match must be played, an admin may need to restore a team's score before the remainder of the match may resume. An admin may use addteamscore to increment or decrement a team's current score. Doing so will not increase the score of any individual players.
        Added Clan Tag team short name support for premium users. If all players in any given team are using the same clan tag, then their clan tag will be used in place of the 'Red Team' or 'Blue Team' text on the player's HUD scorebox.
        Added 'hosted by' information to the 'About this Match' join menu and 'Current Match' game menus for all Start-a-Match servers.
        Fixed an issue that would cause projectiles to deal splash damage instead of direct damage in some situations.
        Fixed an issue that would cause some shots to pass through the enemy player in some situations.
        Damage Dealt & Damage Taken statistics no longer include damage dealt toward or from teammates.
        Fixed the client rank and duplicate name bug in FFA and Duel.
        Fixed telefragging of teammates, such that it no longer triggers the 'Watch your Fire!' warning message.
        Fixed a rare issue that could trigger the TeamKill Complaint system in non-team games.
        Fixed a crash that could occur when a weapon was dropped in InstaGib.
        Fixed Round Draw Bug in FreezeTag.
        Fixed callvoting from not auto-failing in situations where the vote was split evenly 50/50.
        Fixed freecam spectating movement.
        Added 'align' support to the CG_RED_SCORE and CG_BLUE_SCORE HUD elements and fixed their alignment on the Large comp hud. *Note* if you are using a custom hud that was based off of our official Large hud, you may need to adjust the alignment of your score elements.
        Fixed cylinderScale initialization warning.
        Disabled cl_timenudge in LAN games.
        Updated competition map pool arena filters.


    Map Updates:

        Added author credits to Evolution and Thunderstruck
        Battleforged - Fixed two incidents of visible caulk
        Realm of Steel Rats - Fixed an improperly shaped diagonal trim at RL @ tp exit
        Intervention - Fixed vertexlight
        Toxicity - Fixed vertexlight


-------------------------------

Site Update - October 25, 2011

    Premium Maps Added

        Reflux (CTF):

            A decaying corrosive materials factory is the site of Reflux, a brand new Capture the Flag arena. Industry has long left this facility as nature begins to reclaim it. The only sign of human life remaining is a large mixer in the center still churning, keeping its acidic mixture cool and flowing throughout the building. This machinery may even be the only thing stopping a massive explosion from engulfing everything around it.

            More recently, arena combatants have found the place and have began using it to practice their movement, weaving through the mixer blades to pick up a Battle Suit in the middle. Holding the power-up opens up an additional route to the flag, past the Red Armor and Medkit, and through the pipes leading into an acid vat in the flag room. Reflux is a very fast and dynamic CTF map, and is best played with 4 players a team.

        Eye to Eye (Small Duel, Small FFA):

            Nobody is quite sure why this place exists, or what sits behind the ominous, sealed door, yet somehow combatants find themselves teleported into this gladiator pit. This is Eye to Eye, a small Duel map that plays a bit differently than typical arenas.

            There's no items or positioning to worry about, just three platforms, and an octagon in the middle. However, our octagon has no cage, and no rope breaks to get you out of the corners. Instead, retreating will earn you a visit to the lava god, Chthon. Players are armed with a set of armor and weapons upon every spawn. Eye to Eye is another arena new to QUAKE LIVE, and is best played in Duel, or mix it up and try it with a three player Free For All.

        Seams and Bolts (Small CA):

            Seams and Bolts is a small Clan Arena map based on a Rocket Arena 3 design by Adam Bellefeuil. An open middle room is flanked by crossings, leading to lots of opportunity to jump down and plant direct rockets into a few skulls. If you find yourself being pushed out of the middle of the arena, some well placed rails from one of the exterior rooms may be enough to take down some rocket jumping fools, allowing you to charge into the middle from one of three different heights. Seams and Bolts is a fun addition for our Clan Arena players, able to easily handle 2v2 and 3v3 matches.

    Plugin Updates

        Disabled block stopping Google Chrome uses from using the site.
        Fixed Chrome users losing and reconnecting to the friends network every few seconds.
        Fixed Chrome users being unable to load the site after hitting Refresh on the server browser.
        Fixed a potential cause where the game may write out qzconfig.cfg and repconfig.cfg with garbage bytes at the end of the filename.
        Updated Linux Firefox XPI install metadata to allow up more recent versions to install the plugin.

    Game Updates

        Fixed an issue where the game would unnecessarily write out qzconfig.cfg and repconfig.cfg when friend network activity occurs (signing off, on, messages). This may help users who experience hitching when friends sign on and off.
        Decreased how long the end-game scoreboard is shown for.
        Fixed incorrect vertexlight data on the following maps: Almost Lost, Battleforged, Concrete Palace, Devilish, Dies Irae, Distant Screams, Double Impact, Focal Point, Overlord, Powerstation, Retribution, and Space CTF.

    Web Updates

        Resolved an issue where invited standard players would get the "Go Pro" popup while joining a server right after they were invited.
        Updated Game Guide and FAQ with up to date info.
        Don't show friend invite/block buttons on your own profile.
        Most popup notifiers will now automatically close when you choose an action.
        Misc. style fixes to clan invitation, format tag panel.
        Fixed HTML-escaped characters showing up in edit profile bio.
        Fixed wrong ranked setting for Thaw Winning Team preventing ranked FreezeTag launches.
        Clan rank icons changed to fit ranks better.
        Resolved some cases where match tooltips would get stuck in the corner of the screen.
        Added Advanced Browser toggle to match browser to easily switch between Thumbnail and List View.


--------------------------

Web Update - Dec 21, 2011

    An update to the QUAKE LIVE web frontend is now online. Today's changes include some enhancements to the browser filters. These changes have already been applied, and we recommend refreshing your browser by pressing CTRL+F5, or clicking the reload button while holding down shift to ensure you get the latest data.

        Servers running modified rulesets (PQL) are noted with a wrench icon in the browser.
        Game Type filter now includes options to show all Ranked or Unranked matches.
        Unrestricted matches can now be selected through Game Difficulty.


    By selecting the unranked option, matches with modified physics should be easier to find at a glance. 


--------------------------------

Site Update - December 15, 2011

    'Tis the season for QUAKE LIVE and we come bearing gib-- err, gifts. We've got some new surprises, and old holiday favorites in store for today. Along with our traditional holiday arena pack is the addition of the oft-requested Spider Crossings, and a new modified physics ruleset for Pro users to use in Start a Match. Without further ado, QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 11!

    Premium Maps Added

    As part of the Christmas update, both premium maps will be available FREE for all players, for the first week, after which they will return to Premium status. Everyone is invited to hop on and check out the new content!

        Spider Crossings (CTF):

            This arena, created by Dan "Scancode" Gold originally for Quake III Arena, is a classic CTF arena suitable for 4 on 4 play. Bases have entrances on two levels. Once inside, attackers have no less than six paths to take. Taking the low middle route can result in a Regeneration and a Mega Health pickup, but this puts you in a tactically disadvantageous spot against the flag defense, and being unable to take the same path out without damage means you will have to rethink your escape plans. Spider Crossings makes a great addition to the QUAKE LIVE CTF list of arenas, and as mentioned will be free for all for the first week.

        Electric Head (Small CA, Small FFA):

            Electric Head is a small arena created by Adam Bellefeuil, centered around a high area and a low area. Controlling your enemy's movement is the key to victory; knocking them into the middle, or forcing them to move to the low side of the arena. Accomplishing either of these will result in a vast positional advantage, giving you the freedom to control the pace of the game. Electric Head is also available for free for the first week of play.

    Holiday Maps Added

        Winter's Edge:

            Making its second appearance as our annual Holiday Arena is the perennial favorite, Winter's Edge. A port of Quake II's The Edge, which last week saw it's 14th year passing since release, this year we are allowing the ability to play this arena across all gamemodes that support it. Along with The Edge, also return the most important part, the decorations! With a dimmer tree in the center of the map, we hope there will be less reports of temporary blindness as players run out into the iconic center area of the map. Winter's Edge will be to available on our Holiday Servers in both FFA and FreezeTag.

        Silent Night:

            Making it's third appearance is the terrain-based CTF arena, Silent Night. Otherwise known as Distant Screams, Silent Night is a fast-paced map taking place in a nameless tundra. Bases are peppered with (my personal favorite) jetpack style Flight powerup, along with the self-damage reducing Scout rune. Combine the two, and a bit of skill, and you're able to achieve breakneck speed. There's not much else to say about Silent Night, just hop on and play! 

    Premium Scoreboards:

        Premium CTF Scoreboard now available, includes different stats more tailed to CTF games.
        Added support for Regeneration, Haste, and Invisibility power-ups in TDM Team Pickup Stats.
        Pickup Stats are now dynamically generated upon item pickup, so that items such as the GA will not show on the scoreboard if it is not present in the map.
        Added new country flag images, double the resolution of the old images.
        Added subscriber status icon to premium TDM and CTF scoreboards.


    Start-a-Match:

        Added PQL Ruleset. The PQL ruleset is a series of settings that modify player physics and some weapon characteristics, giving players the ability to ramp jump, increased air control, and a tiered armor system similar to Quake 1. It is an unranked option only available on Pro servers.
        Added 'Air Control' option. Allows a player to move in the direction they look, while airborn.
            When holding only a single movement key while airborn, mouse look will dictate the direction you move.
            Alternatively, if you hold a forward or back plus a strafe key (+moveleft or +moveright) while airborn, the player will benefit from the speed and distance normally gained with strafe jumping.
            If you have forward momentum, you can use the strafe keys (without the use of +forward) and small mouse movements to perform a bunny hop.
        Added 'Tiered Armor' option. Tiered armors offer increasingly stronger levels of protection, based off of Quake 1's armor system. Green armors absorb the least damage, and red armors absorb the most damage. You will not pick up an armor if it is weaker than what you currently are wearing.


    Game Updates

        Added Weapon Configs for Premium Users, available through the Advanced Settings UI. Setup per-weapon preferences that are automatically triggered when you switch weapons.
        Unranked server settings available via Start-a-Match will now appear on the map loading screen so that players can be aware of what custom settings are in-use on the server.
        Added unranked server settings to the 'About' menu in-game so players can reference custom server settings while in-game.
        Added improved feedback when 'callvote' is issued without parameters. It will now report back properly what what voting options are allowed by the server.
        Added callvotes for 'cointoss', 'random', and 'ruleset'
        Hide callvote shuffle from menu in non-team games.
        Players are unable to call votes for the first 20 seconds of a map load.
        Players can now only call 3 votes per map, to prevent players from vote spamming.
        'cv' shorthand added as an alternative to typing 'callvote' in the console.
        CTF matches with no timelimit will no longer have increased player spawn times.
        Added Flag Captured vs Flag Held time distinction, "Captured in x:xx" for a continuous flag run, or "Held for x:xx" for a relayed flag cap.
        Free For All servers are now 8 players each, with 8 spectator slots available.
        Battle Suit now protects 1/3rd instead of 1/4th in CTF. (Reflux)
        Added BattleSuit Kill Counter for premium users, cg_battleSuitKillCounter.
        Changed the default for cg_quadKillCounter to 1.
        Added Power-up Kill Counter options to the in-game Advanced Options menu.
        Added Use Item Messages (cg_useItemMessage <0|1|2>) and Use Item Warning (g_useItemWarning <0|1|2>) in advance options menu.
        Added cl_demoRecordMessage 2, a small subtle notification that a recording is being made as an alternative to the large verbose message.
        Changed Clan Names & Clan Tags in teamgames, such that they will now only be used if the team has at least 2 players.
        Fix for Clan Names & Clan Tags changing as players die in Clan Arena.
        Fix to prevent server crashes caused by hitscans bouncing off of invulnerability spheres.
        Fix for issuing the "team follow1" or "team follow2" command when too few players are in the match.
        Fix to prevent demos from being lost due to a cg_autoAction error. When this error occurs, the demo now will save with a default demo####.dm_73 filename, rather than the verbose autoAction filename.
        Fixed rare case when a recently gibbed player can thaw a teammate if they were standing within thawing distance before gibbing.
        Max Aliases increased to 256.
        Correct player is now highlighted on scoreboards.
        FreezeTag thawtime has been decreased by 1 second to 2 seconds.
        FreezeTag spawncode now uses the TDM spawn code and spawns players closer to their teammates.


    Map Updates:

        Almost Lost - MH is now 35 secs in FFA.
        Base Siege
            Fixed missing blue player respawn.
            Fixed orientation of a blue base spawn.
            Fixed local of blue base spawn.
            Minor geometry/texture fixes.
        Battleforged - Removed gl ammo from non-Duel gametypes.
        Devilish -
            Slightly brighter lighting.
            Fixed two HOMs near MH.
            Removed an unnecessary playerclip near entrance to LG hall.
        Dreadful Place
            Fixed clipping in doorway between YA and 50hp
        Dredwerkz - Fixed 'hole' in trigger hurt fog below RA
        Hero's Keep
            Fixed incorrect team location info.
            Moved spawn near RG to match spawn location near LG.
        Intervention - Fixed texture alignments on two lights.
        Proving Grounds
            Altered layout, removed cg, added sg.
            Trigger hurt lowered, attempt to fix some minor issues with it not triggering at times.
        Purgatory
            Fix for deadly fogs near RL and near ** in FreezeTag.
        Reflux
            Flipped brick texture at shard hall.
            Raised curved clip at base pipes.
            Fixed z-fighting at top of base pipes.
            Resized base pipes to best fit at caps.
            Changed railing on RA/RG room lifts.
            Clipped supports in archway from base to 50hp hall.
            Backlit base fan.
        Stonekeep
            Added trim around entrance to medkit cave.
            Fixed vertex lighting.
            Fixed patch alignments.
            Fixed missing sg ammo above GA jumppad.
            Raised GA small ledge for improved chainjumping.
        Vertical Vengeance - MH is now 35 secs in FFA


-----------------------------


 QLPP12 Site Update and Free Premium Week - April 30, 2012

    We’re pleased to announce a content update for Pro and Premium subscribers to QUAKE LIVE, with the addition of the Premium Pak 12. With this update, Pro Start-a-Match players get five new game modes, led by a first for QUAKE, the command point teamplay of Domination. This is accompanied by a brand new Start-a-Match interface, built from the ground up to offer players the most in-depth match customization out of any shooter out there. With more than 200 customization settings, our Pro players can get down to individual weapon tweaks. Rounding out this package are four new premium arenas including the popular Camper Crossings, and two arenas from the Xbox 360 version, Quake Arena Arcade.

    In addition, all QUAKE LIVE premium content will be free beginning today through Sunday, May 6th. During this Free Premium Week, new Premium and Pro subscribers will receive one or two free two-week Pro Subscription Tokens which can be redeemed to extend their subscription or gifted to a friend.

    The Free Premium Week content includes:
    • Over 50 Premium Arenas
    • 6 Premium Game Modes
    • All Premium in-game Features
    • No payment or credit card required

    New Gametypes

        Domination

            A first for the QUAKE series, Domination is a team-based gamemode centered around a series of command points which your team must attack and hold to score points. Similar to Clan Arena, players spawn with all weapons, and all pickups have been removed from the level. Regenerating health and armor has been enabled to allow players a chance to return to full strength after combat.

        Attack & Defend

            This Capture the Flag variant features teams alternating between offensive and defensive roles, with one life to live, and all weapons. Teams can score points by grabbing the flag from the base, capturing the flag, or killing the enemy team. Be careful, though, if you kill the team before anyone touches the flag, you'll lose out on an extra point. Play as a team, assault the enemy base, and maneuver your way out with flag in hand.

        Red Rover

            A mix between Clan Arena and Free For All, players compete against each other. When you frag someone, they switch to your team and respawn. These teammates make loose allies, however, since they will still be eager to frag steal and bump you off of ledges whenever possible. The round ends when all players are on the same team. The player with the highest score at the end of 10 rounds of play is the winner!

        1-Flag CTF

            A neutral flag spawns in the middle of the arena, and teams fight to run it into the enemy base. To spice things up a bit, players have the ability to throw the flag over the heads of enemies and to teammates to help move it further ahead. We've also embedded a small microchip inside the flag, which allows the flag to activate jump pads and teleporters, which is sure to make playing on Space CTF an interesting experience.

        Harvester

            Two teams face off, and each frag spawns a skull in the middle of the arena. Players must then collect those skulls and bring them into the enemy base, without losing their own head. The ability to destroy your own team's skulls by picking them up allows players to deny the enemy the rewards of a hard earned frag. Make sure to go target whoever is running around the arena with a long tail of skulls!

    Start a Match 2.0
    Start a Match has been rewritten from scratch to support over 200 configurable server options, including:

        Customizable Weapons: Disable spawning, adjust damage, reload times, railjumping, and more for every weapon.
        Customizable Physics: Air Control, Air Accel, Ramp Jumping, Ground Accel, Ground Friction, and more.
        Gametype modifiers: Quad Hog, Drop Damaged Health, Vampiric Damage, Regenative Health, Infinite Ammo, Weapon Switch Speed, Weapon Stay, Allow Self-Kills, Spawn Protection, and more.

    The new interface also features the ability to import and export your favorite settings to share on websites, forums, and with friends.

    Premium Arenas Added
    Similar to our last update, the three new arenas will be available FREE for all players, for the first week, after which they will return to Premium status. Everyone is invited to hop on and check out the new content!

        Camper Crossings (CTF/A&D/1-Flag/Harvester/Domination):

            Inspired by perennial favorite Campgrounds, Camper Crossings is a three-storied CTF level created by Dan "Scancode" Gold. The middle ground features the iconic jump pad taking you from bottom to top in an instant. Once you move into the bases things start to look a little less familiar, with three hallways to bring you into the flag room. Attackers will find themselves either dropping down or jumping up to reach the flag, with a hallway behind the stand that can be taken advantage of by both teams. An acceleration pad in the base allows attackers to fly across the flag room, or to be used as clay pigeons and be railed out of the air.

        Cliffside (FFA/Domination):

            First seen in Quake Arena Arcade, Cliffside takes place on a mountaintop above the clouds. Combining Gothic themes with the open areas seen in maps like Longest Yard, Cliffside is definitely one of the most gorgeous maps in QUAKE LIVE to date. A castle featuring a smattering of rooms faces an island that holds the Railgun. Keep an eye out when indoors for the Quad Damage; you'll need to do a slight rocket jump to reach it. The island also features an Invulnerability sphere, which can be deployed most humorously while midair in a jumpad, to send people, including yourself, falling to their death.

        Jumpwerkz (CTF/A&D/1-Flag/Harvester/Domination):

            Also debuting in QUAKE LIVE from Quake Arena Arcade, Jumpwerkz is a fast CTF arena with an open flag room. The highlight of the arena is the two tunnels in the middle, built into a large concrete structure. These acceleration pads provide a super fast path to propel players onto the top decks of the bases, while a slower, more manual route is available by dropping down and taking the low route. Jumpwerkz is a pretty simple design, leaving a lot of room to maneuver around the space.

        Space Camp (FFA/CA):

            Included as a bonus, is the April Fool's 2011 arena, Space Camp. This is a version of the popular Campgrounds arena mirrored, and set in space, with a new weapon layout.

    Premium Awards Added

        Over 14 new Premium Awards added to be unlocked while playing the new gametypes.


    Premium Scoreboards Added
    In addition to the brand new Clan Arena Premium scoreboard, we've also updated the CTF scoreboards to show kills and deaths. Premium scoreboard support has been added to Domination, Attack & Defend, One Flag CTF, and Harvester

    PQL Updates

        PQL is now ranked.
        Resolved an issue in player movement related code that would result in the game feeling "laggy" and cause weapon switching when callvoting to and from PQL.
        Walk Friction lowered from 8 to 7 to improve circle jumping.


    Web Updates

    Changes & Additions:

        Pro players can now invite 5 Standard level users to a Premium match.
        Invitations sent to an online player will now appear as a chat IM to the invitee, with a link to join instead of the Invite Monitor.
        Hovering over the wrench icon on the browser will show more detailed server modification info.
        Last Match and Time played are now counted for Unranked matches.
        Hovering over Time Played will distinguish between time spent on Ranked and Unranked matches.
        Updated browser to sort populated Start a Match servers and premium matches to the top of the list.


    Resolved Issues:

        Sending multiple invitations to the same standard level guest will no longer take up multiple guest slots (Maximum number of non-premium guests reached.) If multiple people invite the same player, it will use the guest slot of the last person to send an invite.
        Many inconsistent uses of timezones have been corrected on the Profile pages.
        Browser filters are disabled while looking at invited matches.
        Corrected Recent Competitors not always showing the most recent match with that player.
        Improved sorting of Quake Live Chat, should now alphabetize players that are online.
        If teamsize is greater than maxclients, browser will show whichever is smaller.
        Some minor formatting on Quake Live Chat to make unread IMs more visible.
        Match Stats are now viewable when a full team or player quits.
        Match Stats will now properly show if the match was InstaGib.
        A Not Found error is no longer generated when linking directly to a match stats page.
        Website key binding and game settings have been removed in favor of in-game options.
        Creating a clan will now automatically activate it.
        Fixed instances where a player leaving a clan is still shown with the tag.
        Joining an invited match with a password will now show the password screen before connecting.
        Resolved one case where the friends list would not appear until an action occurs.
        The tooltip for Freeze Tag matches in the browser now shows Round Limit instead of Frag Limit.
        Game Guide and FAQ updated with more current information.
        Fixed improper usage of "Reticulating Splines" on loading screen.


    Game Updates

    Changes & Additions:

        New Point of Interest (POI) system. This is an enhanced version of the original Team Locators, extended to show gametype objectives, and your team's flag carrier in flag-based game modes. POIs are also more visible when players are at a distance, no longer disappearing or shrinking.
        Added 'Flag Style' for premium users to choose between the default cloth flag and the new holographic flag in CTF based gametypes. (CTF, 1FCTF, A&D).
        Added handicap displays on the scoreboard on all scoreboards (except Premium Duel).
        Reduced HUD clutter from award medals by stacking them rather than drawing them in a horizontal row. Added cg_drawRewardsRow to allow users to revert to the old behavior or specify the size of the the medal row.
        Changed the ready up behavior at the end of matches such that you can only move from 'not ready' to 'ready' once. You may no longer toggle back and forth. (This was leading to userinfo flooding).
        Changed the 'Auto Join Team' behavior such that it will now randomly choose a team if both teams are tied and have the same number of players (instead of always choosing blue).
        Changed Clan Arena damage scoring such that overkill damage no longer counts toward total damage dealt or score.
        Changed the in-game options menu to reflect the correct default FOV value of 100.
        Added "Last Man Standing" voiceover to accompany announcement.
        Bonus health will no longer tick down during round countdowns.
        Enabled Team Force Balance by default on public matches. This prevents players from switching teams mid-match if the switch would result in a 2 player imbalance.
        Small/Large CA and Large CTF servers have been removed. Callvoting teamsize and map on a Premium CA and CTF, in addition to Start a Match settings can be used to create matches of a desired size.


    Resolved Issues:

        Optimized bandwidth usage by reducing frequency of team count updates. This will improve one of the most commonly seen cases of "Server Command Overflow" errors when clients are not experiencing connection issues.
        No longer drop clients while transition between maps for "cl.snap.serverTime < cl.oldFrameServerTime".
        Under specific conditions, cylinder collisions could be miscalculated. Hitscan hit detection has been greatly improved.
        Players disconnected from a server and are sitting at the menu will no longer appear to friends as in-game.
        If a match is not able to start, more detailed messages are displayed with the reason.
        Resolved memory corruption caused by enabling r_fastsky.
        Dead or recently joined players would sometimes be moved to spectator if Follow Powerups was enabled.
        The "One" voiceover is no longer played twice during the match countdown in non-round based gametypes.
        Resolved one condition that caused the "<player> dropped for flooding" error between matches.
        The Duel Premium Scoreboard would sometimes appear to change the ready status of the wrong player.
        Resolved an issue where third person was incorrectly enabled in online matches.
        Players will no longer get stuck on terrain in certain conditions while using Flight.
        Bots will no longer improperly use the func_bobbing on Beyond Reality.
        dropflag, droppowerup, and dropweapon can no longer be used during a pause or timeout.
        The callvote menu was not listing the appropriate map list for FreezeTag.
        The callvote map preview shot would be out of date, after selecting a map, closing the menu, and then re-opening the callvote menu.
        The UI code would attempting to play ROQ cinematics of maps selected in the callvote menus.
        The winning player's weapon model was not being displayed on the scoreboard in InstaGib FFA and InstaGib Duel matches.
        Resolved an issue where the player capturing a flag would sometimes hear the capture sound twice if Draw Rewards was enabled. Added cg_rewardsVO to all players to disable award images, without disabling the medal VO/SFX notification.
        Resolved an issue that would cause the "Round Begins in" VO to not play during the first round countdown in FreezeTag.
        Disabled teleport sound effect and shader effect when players are sitting at the post-game scoreboard.
        Renamed the 'Doubler' rune to 'Damage' rune to better reflect the 1.5x damage multiplier.
        Removed the bonus starting armor from pre-game warmup. A player will now spawn with the same amount of armor that they will spawn with during the match.
        Removed team switch cooldown when changing to specator. Players do not have to wait when switching from spectator to a team.
        Resolved an issue that could cause callvote teamsize checks in elimination based gametypes to be wrong if mid-game voting was allowed and a vote was initiated mid-round while some players were eliminated.
        Removed deprecated '/team scoreboard' command.
        Flags can no longer be grabbed after the timelimit but before the end-game scoreboard appears.
        Scores will no longer increment after the timelimit but before the end-game scoreboard appears.
        Resolved improper player model orientation and scaling of the winning player on the Duel Premium Scoreboard.
        Resolved an issue that prevented damage dealt in instagib from being tracked. It is now tracked in-game and will show in the website stats.
        Resolved an issue that caused visual jitters when using cl_timenudge while spectating.
        Resolved a shader sort issue that caused blue teleportals to draw on top of other surfaces.
        Drop Damaged Health would drop health when receiving falling damage when no self damage was enabled.
        Resolved multipliers on items picked up both immediately before and after respawning by clearing pickup history on respawn.
        Negative values would display on the DrawTeamPickups area of the premium scoreboards for one second before data was retrieved.


    Plugin Updates

        Resolved an issue where Mac (and potentially some Linux configurations) users would constantly reconnect to the Friends network.
        Improved behavior when running under Windows 7 with Internet Explorer as a limited user.


    Arenas Updated

        Arena Gate - Fixed out of world hall of mirror effect.
        Bloodrun - A new spawn layout designed to reduce spawn fragging.
        Devilish - Brightened the map, and added a Quad in FFA.
        Dueling Keeps - Starting spawns have been moved into the flag room.
        Industrial Accident - Fixed hall of mirror effect in blue base.
        Ironworks - Starting spawns have been moved into the flag room.
        Japanese Castles - Starting spawns have been moved into the flag room.
        Stonekeep - Fixed the floating flag base.
        Wargrounds - Added a Quad in FFA.
        Windowpain - Fixed vertex light mode.

--------------------------------

Site Update - May 15, 2012

    Hot on the heels of the QLPP12 update and our Free Premium Week, we have a small release to meet the demand of a few recent player requests, and address a number of both long standing issues as well as some newer issues found late in the testing process of QLPP12. We have also taken the opportunity to update our database solutions to improve site performance near peak hours of play.

    Web and Infrastructure Updates

        Updated our Database solutions to their latest versions to improve performance.
        The Start-a-Match updated to remove infinite ammo and spawn item options in InstaGib modes.
        Guide updated to correct TDM timelimit and Quad Factor values.
        Customer Support now supports English only.

    Game Updates

    Resolved Issues:

        Proxy mines that time out near other proxy mines can no longer crash Clan Arena, Attack & Defend, or Red Rover games.
        Players receiving damage would sometimes play the incorrect pain sounds when their health was above 75hp.
        Weapons, such as the lightning gun, may no longer be duped by dropping them while firing and using the 'use item' command.
        The railgun and lightning gun hums were not audible while spectate following a player if Draw Gun was disabled.
        Players are now able to use the in-game menus during a paused match.
        Vampiric Damage now properly leeches health from kill shots.
        A broken 'Best Weapon' icon on the CA Scoreboard will no longer appear before the image data loads.
        Attackers can no longer receive a defense award when killing a defender in attacker's base in Attack & Defend.
        Match no longer enter a broken warmup state in Duel if an active duel player leaves during the pause/timeout.
        Overall Accuracy on +acc now auto updates, instead of relying on a scoreboard update.
        Reward sounds are no longer delayed if the scoreboard is being displayed at the time the award is earned.
        Last Standing VOs will no longer play multiple times.
        Last Standing VO sometimes would not play. The message is now being sent in a more reliable manner.
        Third person now works in demo files.
        Domination control point possession indicators now display while spectating.
        Domination control point possession indicators now display on the Min and Large HUDs.
        Handicap would not display if the handicap was >= 50 and the startingHealth was >= 200.
        A non-present team score of -9999 no longer shows on the Large HUD in games of Red Rover.
        Setting cg_poimaxdist2d to 0 will no longer spam the console with a warning message. The cvar has been deprecated and removed.
        One Flag CTF flag possession indicators are now properly aligned on the free float spectating HUDs.
        Players will no longer be kick for invalid name while in Practice Mode.
        The basic Player Model section UI box in game options was not displaying in the new Domination, Attack & Defend, and Red Rover gametypes.
        The game no longer loads the old/unused Q3 menus into memory.
        The game no longer loads and parses the old/unused Q3 gameinfo.txt data.

    Changes & Additions:

        Matches may no longer be forfeited during a pause or timeout.
        The Last Standing VO may now be disabled with 'cg_playTeamVO 0'.
        Teammate overhead icon's distance scaling can now be controlled with the cvars cg_drawFriendMaxWidth and cg_drawFriendMinWidth. Reducing the size of minWidth will allow the icon to become even smaller the further the distance between you and your teammate, increasing the minWidth won't allow them to scale down as much but may make it easier to keep track of the general direction of your teammates.
        Some server owners were abusing addscore, addteamscore. As such, these admin commands have been removed from server owners and are now reserved for id or special LAN event use.
        Deprecated the cvars cg_domIconMax / cg_domIonMin used to control the size of the Domination POIs and instead replaced them with cg_poiMaxWidth and cg_poiMinWidth, more generic cvars that now work on all objective POIs.
        Your own overhead icons are no longer drawn, unless you enable cg_drawSpriteSelf. Your own frozen icon in Freeze Tag will no longer block your view.
        Kill Beeps are now enabled by default, utilizing the success 'Ding' sound effect. This may be altered or disabled in the in-game Game Options menu, or in the console with cg_killBeep.
        Updated the TDM gametype description text to remove the fraglimit notice.

    Map Updates:

        Camper Crossings - Players can no longer drop the flag behind glass wall in base.
        Bloodrun - Clipping fixed near RG. Spawns updated.
        Brimstone Abbey - There was invisible collision at the base of the stairs in the pool room.
        Cliffside - Mountainside to the left of the castle was not fully clipped.
        Focal Point - Wall has missing collision on second floor near the RG/GL.
        Furious Heights - Fixed the invisible collision on stairs between RA/RG.
        Industrial Accident - HOM fixed in ceiling grating in lower perimeter hallways.
        Japanese Castle - Fixed missing spawns in Red Rover.
        Jumpwerkz - Fixed collision on interior of jump pad shaft.
        Longest Yard - Fixed texture scaling on a light.
        Space CTF - Megahealth no longer spawns inside Harvester dispenser.
        Quarantine - Player can no longer stand on invisible clip near the eagle's nest.


------------------------

Site Update - May 22, 2012

    We have applied a small update today to address a few outstanding issues.

    Resolved Issues:

        Fixed missing chat element on Large HUD. (MAX_MENUS increased from 64 to 128.)
        Dead players can no longer be dropped for inactivity in Attack & Defend.
        Server owners will no longer be prompted for the password when reconnecting to their own server.
        The admin command 'setmatchtime' is now restricted, as per the recent change to 'addscore' and 'addteamscore'.
        Server chat will now be prefixed with 'Server:' instead of 'nsole:'.
        Bloodrun: Player clipping in the corner between the grenade launcher and red armor reverted/fixed, while preserving the fixed archway clip between the railgun and teleporter.
        Quarantine: Fixed texture on wall surface that created a 'hole' effect.


--------------------------

Web Update - May 31: Premium Stats Graphs

    An update to the QUAKE LIVE web frontend is now online.

    This update brings Premium and Pro users the ability to see graphs of your last 10 matches on all player profiles. View recent data for over 30 different statistics collected during play, including individual weapon frags and accuracy, frag/death ratio, highest frag spree, and more. These graphs are only available to our Premium and Pro subscribers, so subscribe today and get more insight on your performance!

    We have also re-added the In Browser Resolution dropdown to Game Settings for those who are having issues with their current configuration.

    If you haven't yet refreshed your browser, the changes will not be visible, however a simple CTRL+F5, or clicking Refresh while holding down shift will reload all site assets. 


---------------------------

Game Update 7/30   2012

    A game update has been applied to QUAKE LIVE. An issue in the chat system has been resolved. There are no other changes as a part of this update. 


-------------------------------------

Site Update - September 11, 2012

    Today's update introduces the ability to purchase subscriptions in one, three, and six month increments, along with the ability to purchase redeemable gift tokens. It also resolves several issues that have popped up with the arena cycling system over the past month.

    Web Changes

        We now offer one, three, six, and 12 month subscription options.
        We now sell one, three, six, and 12 month tokens.
        Added support to show information for multiple subscriptions applied to one account.
        Long names are now ellipsized on the match browser 'Live Game Info' hover info.
        Resolved an issue where the Premium pie chart on the Arenas tab would sometimes disappear.
        Resolved an issue where players who have played more than 100 unique arenas would be missing certain arenas on their Arenas tab.
        Game Summary now notes when a match was using PQL.
        Game Summary & Game Details now properly handle score in forfeit conditions.
        Allow Eliminated Players to Freecam Spectate option added to Start-a-Match for CA and A&D.


    Game Changes

        Match servers now properly save and restore duel queue across arena loads.
        Don't show the same arena multiple time if more than one arena doesn't exist (Start a Match, Samplers).
        Better notification between arena voting ending and the next match.
        Server will attempt to choose arenas appropriate for the match team sizes, or eight players in Free For All.
        Server will no longer force a reload of the current arena if it is voted for again.
        On Start a Match matches, the first arena choice will always be the current arena.
        Resolved an issue where players would get dropped for server command overflow while on the voting screen.
        Fixed ready up status out of sync / outdated - ready up statuses were only updated when both teams were present and balanced.
        Allow players to unready themselves if their opponent joins and then leaves before readying up.
        Ensure that players do not have a left over PMF_NO_FIRING flag set or an outdated ready flag, such as when a match is aborted during the countdown.
        Fixed a shader issue on Premium Duel Scoreboard when no players are in the match.


    Arena Changes

    Concrete Palace

        Swapped lower GA and YA's positions to their original placements.


    Limbus

        Un-weapon clipped RA Pillar.
        Added another jump-on light detail to RA.
        Tweaked arch construction (ex: RG arch) to try and improve lighting.
        Player-clipped upper-RG doorway to JP.
        Made GL JP hole larger (easier to drop back down).
        Tweaked Broken RG/Quad window for easier passage.
        Rebuilt RA ad-frame.
        Converted blue lights below RA ad frame to .ase model to prevent deforming.
        Rebuilt deformed MH Tele frame.
        Angled off corner between GL & RG for smoother passage.
        Tweaked jump-up ledge details at lower SG room.
        Added missing clip to the left of RA stairs from SG.
        Improved clipping on Quad ad-frame.
        Removed weapon-clip from Quad tele-exit ledge and high quad ledge floor grills.
        Slightly raisd YA+RL floor trims for easier jump to YA.
        Clipped RA 4x5hp bubble pillar for better flow.
        Switch RA 2x5hp bubbles with 1x25hp bubble.
        Use correct default ad images (w/ nopicmip).


    Purgatory

        Expand all doorway clips. (RA doorframe bug)
        Player-clip quad sky areas.
        Un-player-clip Quad lights to broken area. (can jump up now)
        Player-clip basement ceiling lights (above shards).
        Recessed low-YA ad frame to prevent head-bumping.
        Re-space RA pillars and align to grid.
        Continue RA-stairs trim.
        Raise quad-broken clip slightly.
        Clip RA ad-supports flush with wall.
        Replaced mini-ledge to RG-ammo with pipes.
        Fixed misplaced clip brushes at High-YA ledge.
        Fixed overdraw bug at RA pillars/Water corridor.


    Reflux

        Fixed clipping at mid jumppads.
        Removed rain, raindrops, rain sfx.
        Replaced broken ceiling pane in base with fresh new pane of glass
        Removed vegetation where broken pane was.
        Removed the hidden back half of all decorative pipes
        Replaced the volumetric lighting from light fixtures with lower poly versions.
        Additional miscellaneous performance optimizations.


    Silence

        Added two teleporter destination decals.
        Use correct default ad images (w/ nopicmip).
        Fixed missing clip above staircase hall near RL. (ceiling exploit fix)
        Added pipe jump from GA/25hp to center pillar.
        Fixed misaligned crate texture.


    Terminus

        Updated author names.
        Fixed various texture alignment issues.
        Moved intermission slightly.
        Removed hole at ** floor-grate (by MH door).
        Player-clipped the foot of each ** pillar.
        Raised high-YA door and fixed in place.
        Re-player-clipped LG-broken. (much smoother now)
        Fixed visible caulk at LG-broken.
        Applied phong-shading to all broken area sub-surfaces.
        Merged pre-RA windows into a single unit.
        Shifted pre-RA pipe-window back 32units.
        Player-clipped pre-RA pipe-window pillar feet.
        Removed a portion of the pillar by RAJP.
        Converted wire detail at RAJP to .ase to prevent deforming.
        Player-clipped RA chain-pillar feet.
        Widened access to **/Pre-RA JP at base.
        Replaced Quad pillar jump-edge with easier broken pillar.
        Fixed ** ceiling light being deformed.
        Player-clipped ** pillars to prevent player hang-ups.
        Raised ceiling light+wire in MH-** tunnel.
        Raised ** ceiling.
        Adjusted ** rockwall slightly.
        Fixed pipes not touching the wall, near high-YA.
        Applied lightmapping to various models.
        Converted lift room wire-window to .ase, to prevent deforming.
        Converted 45degree lights at Quad/Yard to .ase to prevent deforming.
        Removed unnecessary cluster portals.
        Moved RG drop slightly and rebuilt doors to create more room when open.
        Fixed weapon-clip at RAJP glass.
        Removed some ambient fluorescent light buzz.


---------------------------------

Site Update - September 15, 2012

    Tonight we have applied a small follow-up update to address some immediate issues noted in our most recent update.

    Web Changes:

        Resolved an issue that would cause the HTTPS -> HTTP redirection in Account Settings to not redirect.


    Game Changes:

        The server will no longer attempt to choose 'Default' as the winning map, when no votes are cast during the voting period and one of the available map choices were 'default'.
        Statistics tab data will no longer be missing from Premium Team Game Scoreboards.
        Duplicate maps should no longer appear in the post-match voting options on pro servers.
        Resolved an issue that could cause some maps in a Start-a-Match map pool to not appear as post-match voting options.
        Post-match arena options are now affected by pre-game 'callvote teamsize' votes. (Ex: teamsize 2 will get you evolution, teamsize 8 will get you coldwar)


-----------------------------------

QLPP14 Site Update - October 23, 2012

    QUAKE LIVE's Premium Pak 14, is now online. This update adds new Holiday content, including the Infected gametype modifier, which is also freely available for all players through Halloween as well as permanently available for our Pro Start-a-Match users. Accompanied with the update is the addition of five new arenas, including a brand new Duel arena making it's debut and three highly acclaimed Maverick Server Mapping contest winners.

    New Red Rover Gamemode Variant

        Infected

            Infected is based off of Red Rover, but instead of swapping teams, you're running away from the infected horde. The Infected Mastermind, the deadly source of the infection spawns in the arena with a Plasma Gun. All players start out as survivors, armed with only their trusty Shotgun, and Machine Gun, and have to survive as long as they can. Once fragged, players will respawn as one of the Infected, who are quicker than the survivors, but only carry an Instagib Gauntlet.

    Premium Arenas Added

        Corrosion (TEAM):

            By Tom 'Phantazm11' Perryman, Corrosion is the 2nd place prize winner of the Summer 2010 Quake 3 Maverick Mapping Contest, and was built for Domination and Team Deathmatch matches. The arena is set in an old water treatment plant. Pipes, moving machinery, industrial fans, hanging wires, and concrete culverts were utilized to bring the theme to life.

        Fluorescent (CTF):

            By Ferdinand 'cityy' List, Fluorescent is the 1st place prize winner of the Summer 2011 Quake 3 Maverick Mapping Contest. A Capture the Flag arena, Fluorescent's notable feature is the fluorescent lights throughout the bases. A unique look for a QUAKE LIVE arena, and a blast to play!

        Silent Fright (TEAM):

            Holiday variant of Overlord, designed for Red Rover: Infected. Overlord has been taken over by the Infected horde. They've also done some terraforming, with some extra paths to try and cut off those pesky survivors, and a graveyard replacing where the other base once was. In addition to Infected, Overlord is great for large FFA matches. Silent Fright will also be available in the Standard arena cycle for the remainder of the cycle.

        Sinister (DUEL):

            Making its debut, Sinister is a brand new arena by Mike 'Yellack' Schreiber and Gary 'akm' Turner (creators of Purgatory and Limbus). In Sinister, verticality is key, as there is ample opportunity to quite literally get the jump on your opponent. With relatively wide open areas, you'll have plenty of opportunity to test your rail skills.

        Terminatria (DUEL):

            By Russell 'bst' Vint, Terminatria is the 3rd place prize winner of the Summer 2011 Quake 3 Maverick Mapping Contest. Set in an abandoned space station orbiting around Mars, Terminatria is a Duel map that will send players running through teleporters and curved hallways to control the items. Even though Terminatria is set in space, there's no worry about falling into the void, as the arena is enclosed.

    Premium Awards Added

    Added 22 new awards, including

        16 Premium Awards
        5 Trophy Case Awards
        1 Holiday Award.


    Game Updates

    Changes & Additions:

        Added the ability to disable the Post-Match Arena Voting and Callvote Ruleset in Start-a-Match.
        Server owners and operators may now issue callvotes, even when public callvoting is disabled on their server.
        New Weapon Selection Code will now spawn you with a better starting weapon, if one is present in your inventory. Subscribers may customize their preference list of which weapons they would wish to spawn with using the new cvar, cg_preferredStartingWeapons. The cvar accepts a space-delimited list of both weapon numbers or weapon abbreviations. (Ex: cg_preferredStartingWeapons "rl lg rg sg pg mg gl g")
        Duel players now have 2 minutes to ready up, once one of the players is marked as ready. Failing to ready-up will move you out of the Duel Play Queue, making room for a new opponent to challenge. This feature, and its time duration is customizable in Start-a-Match.
        The timeout pause length now defaults to 60 seconds (increased from 30s).
        Added the ability to set a "Protected Spawn Time" in Start-a-Match for Freeze Tag. Players who are fragged within this amount of time from their spawn due to a poor spawn location, will be fragged and immediately respawn to a new location rather than becoming frozen.
        The PQL ruleset no longer has a custom WalkFriction (it will now use the default 6 intead of 7, which means circle jumps will gain more speed).
        Added new options for simpleitems, including bobbing simpleitems via cg_simpleItemsBob <0-2>, a height offset with cg_simpleItemsHeightOffset, and a slightly larger max simpleItemRadius (22->24).


    Resolved Issues:

        Fixed 'Most Accurate' Premium Scoreboard award in Clan Arena (it would display the incorrect player name).
        HUD scorebox correctly increments after earning CA Damage, RR Damage, or Infected Survivor Score Bonuses.
        Fixed Round Draw in Red Rover, it was broken/missing from all RR variants.
        Fixed Red Rover's forfeit conditions.
        Fixed popping sound at the beginning and end of the armor pickup sound effect


    Arenas Updated

        Fatal Instinct - Fixed leak, and did a major cleanup pass.
        Courtyard - HOM fixed in Mega Health room.


------------------------
Game Update - November 4   2012

    We have released an interim patch to resolve a few issues that have popped up since QLPP14.

    Game Changes

        Restored missing skins for James and Janet skins that were broken due to a build error (blue, red, sport_blue, sport_red).
        Resolved an issue with the Duel Ready Up Timer where it would continue the countdown progression if a dueler went spectator.
        Reduced occurrences of server command overflow while shuffling, and during pre-round Red Rover by not broadcasting team changes and obituary information.


---------------------------------------


Holiday Update - December 4th, 2012

    The holidays seem to creep earlier every year. QUAKE LIVE is jumping on the bandwagon by launching our holiday matches earlier than ever. Skip the maddening holiday music, crowded malls, and hectic travelling plans, and return to Winter's Edge and Silent Night.

        Winter's Edge:

            Making its third appearance as our annual Holiday Arena is the perennial favorite, Winter's Edge. A port of Quake II's The Edge, which last week saw it's 15th year passing since release, this year we are allowing the ability to play this arena across all supported gamemodes. Along with The Edge, also return the tree of lights in the center! Winter's Edge will be to available for a limited time in the standard map pool, and in on our Holiday Servers in both FreezeTag and InstaFreeze variations.

        Silent Night:

            Making it's fourth appearance is the terrain-based CTF arena, Silent Night. Otherwise known as Distant Screams, Silent Night is a fast-paced map taking place in a nameless tundra. Bases are peppered with (my personal favorite) jetpack style Flight powerup, along with the self-damage reducing Scout rune. Combine the two, and a bit of skill, and you're able to achieve breakneck speed. There's not much else to say about Silent Night, just hop on and play! 

    Game Changes:

        Fixed server command flooding that possible when end-map voting is disabled, which would result in clients being dropped / disconnected.
        Fixed incorrect starting health bonus when callvoting to and from PQL (in gametypes where the QL ruleset should have no health bonus, like CA).
        Increased the maximum engine message length to reduce the occurance of Bad Command Byte errors in large matches.
        Fixed picmip issues with: santa/sport, razor/blue (head), razor/red (head), razor/sport_red (head), james/red (head) player skins.


    Map Changes:

        Fluorescent

                    Removed the nodrop in the water, flags will no longer auto-return when dropped into the water.
                    Fixed the nonsolid water at railgun, replaced it with a functional but more shallow pool of water.
                    Added/improved some clipping to the Medkit water tunnels.

        Limbus

                    Misc texture fixes.
                    Set all models to lightmapped for improved lighting.
                    Fixed visible caulk at the Red Armor jumppad.
                    Removed raised trim at upper yellow armor platform.
                    Swapped Railgun window for door.
                    Placed window at Railgun / quad ledge.
                    Added extra detail at Red Armor jumppad ceiling.
                    Tweaked Railgun / Quad ledge area detailing.
                    Tweaked Shotgun 'hop-up' ledge area clipping.
                    Fixed Shotgun / Red Armor jumppad not being cushioned at the back.

        Silence

                    Fixed the clipping error near the Red Armor walls.

        Sinister

                    Fixed a clipping error in the Red Armor room.


-----------------------------


QLPP13 Site Update - July 24, 2012

    We're pleased to announce the release of QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 13. This release contains five new arenas from popular community authors, new player character skins, and a change to our Premium subscription model. Starting today, we will be regularly cycling the Standard arena pool. On the first Monday of each month, 21 arenas will be selected as playable for Standard-level matches. Newly released arenas will remain exclusive for at least three months, but every other arena is eligible to be included in the cycle.

    In addition to this change, we are also introducing a new arena voting system to increase the variety of arenas played. Players playing on Standard-level matches will now have a choice between three arenas at the end of each match. The arena voted on will be the next match played. Premium matches will continue to have access to the entire arena pool, and matches created by our Pro players will continue to have the option to change arenas at any point.

    Rounding out this update are new "Bright" and "Sport" skin variations for every model on the roster, to allow players to be any character in the game, but still remain highly visible. We also have a few updates to our new Start a Match to help manage matches. We've seen a tremendous increase in Start a Match activity in recent months, and we love seeing what modifications our players have come up with so far! Without further ado, here’s what’s new:

    New Premium Content

        Infinity by Ferdinand ‘cityy’ List: After the hazardous materials make their way through the facilities in Reflux, the water-based byproducts end up here in Infinity. This Capture the Flag arena was converted from its industrial uses after being abandoned years ago by the original owners. Long lines of sight down the center create opportunities to rail outgoing flag runners, who may choose to take a dip into the slower, but safer, water paths. A Quad Damage spawns in the middle every two minutes, so coordinate your attacks wisely!
        Limbus by Mike ‘Yellack’ Schreiber and Gary ‘akm’ turner: A Team Deathmatch arena made by the team of Yellack and akm, Limbus also plays great in our Domination mode. The Quad Damage room offers interesting possibilities for fights, offering a route that requires some dexterity while jumping across high, exposed platforms. Don’t forget about the underground areas; Limbus is larger than it appears on first inspection.
        Silence by Ferdinand ‘cityy’ List: A Duel arena that has you surrounded by—thankfully contained — corrosive material, the action in Silence is anything but. Silence is pretty tall as far as Duel arenas go, so you’ll have to be aware of your vertical surroundings. The Red Armor is placed for maximum grab-and-run potential, but you may want to keep an eye out for Railgun-toting opponents before you leap. Silence is a great addition to the Duel arena pool, and is also fun for small Free for All and Clan Arena matches.
        Terminus by FRS and Gary ‘akm’ turner: Taking place in a sprawling base, Terminus is a very large Team Deathmatch arena with lots of room for tricks and advanced movement. Teams will vie for control for the Battle Suit and Quad Damage rooms, taking care to not get knocked into the fog, or knocked off the Quad platform, making any player who drops down easy fragbait. Terminus is also available for Domination play.
        Windsong Keep by Tom ‘Phantazm11’ Perryman: The author of Black Cathedral is back with a third arena: a Duel arena taking place in a stunning castle. Windsong Keep is nothing short of an artistic masterpiece in the QUAKE LIVE engine. Expect heavy combat around the ruined tower which holds the Red Armor. A Mega Health is located in another central room, but with ample room for ambush. Try not to get distracted by the beautiful visuals while running through the hallways. Windsong Keep definitely plays as well as it looks.


    New Additions:

        Post-Match Arena Voting: Voting for the next arena is now done during the end game scoreboard. You are able to switch your votes as many times as you want, every 2.5 seconds. Selecting an arena will mark you as ready, and the time spent at the scoreboard is now a fixed time.
        Start a Match Presets: A Preset Manager is now available under Advanced Settings: give your presets a name, and store your favorite Start a Match settings locally. Loading presets can be done in as little as two clicks. If you're not sure what preset to choose, preview the changes before loading them!
        New Match Management Options: Three requested options have been added to Match Management: Inactivity Kick Length to enable the idle kick seen on public matches, Enable Automatic Shuffle which will automatically shuffle teams when enough players are in warmup, and Shuffle Behavior to allow changing shuffles from default Skill Based option to Random. Server owners are automatically excluded from being kicked due to inactivity.
        Clan Search: Search through all current clans by clan tag, or by clan name. Click on search results to view the clan's profile page.
        Arena Statistics Graph: A pie graph of the player's top 15 arenas, sorted by games played, is available for Premium users on the Arenas tab.


    Web Changes:

        Resolved several instances where certain characters in clan names would cause the names to not be rendered correctly.
        Resolved an issue where a user could have a Premium-level arena in a Standard-level match, resulting in an error when starting the match.
        Resolved an issue where player models were not rendering properly in the Friend Earned Award popup.
        Resolved an issue where certain characters in match names were not being decoded correctly.
        Scoreboard will no longer count players that haven't fired a weapon in the team accuracy totals.
        Resolved an issue that may cause accuracy values on the scoreboard to be incorrect if you rejoined a match in progress.


    Game Changes:

        Server owners can no longer be callvote kicked from their own matches.
        Resolved an issue where votes could be called after a previous vote has already passed, but before the vote action was taken.
        Domination point captured/loss VO will only be played if cg_playTeamVO is enabled.
        Resolved an issue where Railgun rails would predict firing while chatting.
        Callvote menu is updated properly when “callvote map” is disabled.


    PQL Changes:

        Item heights are now taller in PQL. Like flags, items cannot be easily jumped over.
        Added the ability to hold crouch at the top of jumppads to catch the ledge, instead of either a normal drop or a rampjump.
        Increased vertical knockback for more vertical popup from splash damage, without breaking self-splash or rocket jumps.
        Increase Plasma Gun splash radius from 20 to 32
        Increase Plasma Gun knockback from 1.10 to 1.25
        Increase Rocket Launcher knockback from 1.00 to 1.10
        Increase maximum knockback from 120 to 160
        Swim speed increased from 160ups to 190ups.


    Map Changes:

        Bloodlust – Fixed blue’s offset flagbase.
        Devilish – The Quad Damage no longer spawns in Duel.
        Hidden Fortress – Fixed clipping in curve near 50hp and teleporter.
        Reflux – The Red Armor respawn time has been increased from 25 to 60 seconds.
        Reflux – Optimizations for performance, including the portals in base have been changed to teleporters (cannot see through them).
        Stonekeep – The Red Armor respawn time has been increased from 25 to 60 seconds.
        Toxicity – Optimizations for performance.


-----------------------


QLPP15 Site Update - December 17, 2012

    There's more than the season to be jolly around here at the QUAKE LIVE World Headquarters, this season also marks the 15th anniversary of Quake II. What better time than now, and with the 15th Premium Pak no less, to celebrate the release of Quake II with the Quake II themed Premium Pak. We've got both seasons in mind with these new arenas: two deathmatch arenas from the original Quake II, a brand new TDM arena with a Strogg theme, and finally a brand new CTF arena set in the snow.

    We are also launching public PQL Clan Arena servers available to both Premium and Pro players. These are now available in most locations in tiered and unrestricted variations.

    Premium Arenas Added

        The Edge:

            Built for the new year is QUAKE LIVE's new version of The Edge. This version has been built off the original Quake II source, providing an authentic Edge-xperience, with a Strogg-inspired theme new to QUAKE LIVE. While the gameplay remains largely similar, elimination based game modes feature a teleporter inspired by the Quake 1 version of the arena: a two way portal in between the catwalks near the Rocket Launcher, and the Railgun room, to discourage those looking to wait out the around in solitude. The Edge takes the place of Winter's Edge, and will be available through the new year.

        Warehouse:

            Also making its QUAKE LIVE debut is Quake II's Warehouse. The Strogg have seen fit to retrofit a recently taken military warehouse to process and manufacture Stroyent for the Strogg war machine. A hidden Battle Suit at the end of the conveyor belt awaits those up along the top of the facility, but be careful of being crushed, and recently installed decontaminating lasers. A few new tricks and spaces have been opened up since this warehouse was last visited, creating new routes for combat veterans who have fought here before. Warehouse is also available through the new year.

        Left Behind:

            Left Behind is a new Strogg-themed Team Deathmatch arena created by Ferdinand 'cityy' List. Left Behind offers lot of nooks and jumps to skip around areas to best fit your strategy. The central area features a large rock hanging over lava, so some caution is required when speeding around the rooms, especially when playing with PQL. Left Behind is also more than suitable for Clan Arena modes.

        Cold Cathode (CTF):

            Rounding out this update is a new Capture the Flag arena, created by cityy and Phantazm11. Cold Cathode is certainly a cool looking map, both literally due to the snow, and also from the fluorescent light beams that wrap around the arena. Defenders have a Yellow Armor, Megahealth, and Red Armor well within their reach, but will have to lose sight of their flag in order to grab them. Flag carriers have ample opportunity to run, and outmaneuver chasing defenders by switching routes. Teams will want to defend the alternating Regeneration and Quad Damage between the bases to most effectively aid their offense.

    Web Updates

        Resolved an issue with sliders in Start a Match that would cause the hash to update under recent versions of Firefox


----------------------

QLPP16 Site Update - January 22, 2013

    QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 16 is now online. This update features three new arenas hailing from the QUAKE 3 Arena community, and play great under both our PQL and regular rulesets.

    Premium Arenas Added

        Foolish Legacy:

            More than just a fan favorite, Foolish Legacy, by Richard 'swelt' Jacques, is often considered the pinnacle of Team Deathmatch design. Buttons, traps, lava, crates, water pools, and two powerups fill this TDM arena. Originally optimized for the QUAKE III Arena mod Challenge ProMode Arena, the arena formerly known in CPMA as 'cpm21' plays masterfully under both the standard and PQL rulesets, and rewards teamwork. Two major paths between power-ups are buttonized traps, requiring teammates to assist keeping the route viable as their comrades traverse them.

            Foolish Legacy joins the fray in QUAKE LIVE, and is accessible in Free For All, Team DeathMatch, Clan Arena, Freeze Tag, Domination, and Red Rover.

        Use and Abuse:

            Created by FxR|jude (50chickens), Use and Abuse was inspired by the classic QUAKE 1 arena, The Bad Place. After its debut into the QUAKE III Arena mod Challenge ProMode Arena as 'cpm3a', Use and Abuse quickly became the most iconic battleground for CPM Duel players, and often featured in CPM frag videos such as 'CPMA Done by Vo0'. This two atrium arena features open high ceilings, leading to breathtaking lightning pins and successive mid-air rocket hits in the hands of adept combatants.

            Use and Abuse is supported in both standard and PQL rulesets, but excels in PQL Duel.

        Wicked:

            In January of 2000, FxR|jude (50chickens), released a small Duel arena based on some of his previous QUAKE 2 Free For All designs. Over the course of the next year the map grew in popularity, was refined, and made it's first appearance in Challenge ProMode Arena as 'cpm1a': the first official duel map in the CPM map pool. Over the past 13 years, Wicked acted as the first arena most combatants battled on as they were first introduced to CPM Duel gameplay.

            Everyone on the QUAKE LIVE team would like to thank FxR|jude for allowing us the privilege of bringing Wicked to QUAKE LIVE, and know that it here too will be a treat for many players who wish to take up the challenge of PQL Duel.

    Web Changes

        Match Summary Details will now reflect if the match was either Infected or Quad Hog.
        Match Browser server modifications list will now note if a Red Rover match is running Infected.


    Game Changes

        Resolved an issue with the in-game ad system that was causing a delay on join.
        Resolved an issue where players could switch teams when the imbalance would be created after the switch.
        Resolved an issue where clients were being sent extraneous information during Duel matches.
        Instagib demos generated by the AutoAction feature are now prefixed with an "i" before the game type abbreviation.


    Arena Changes

        Aerowalk
        - Ceiling lights are now non-solid.
        - Removed an exploitative wall clip that could be stood on.
        Sinister
        - New weapon layout, including a second Rocket Launcher.
        - Rebuilt Yellow Armor room.
        - Added stairs and teleporter to Red Armor.
        - Added ramps to stairs for silent walking.
        Warehouse
        - Fixed a wall clip that players could get stuck on, in the upper portion of the GA room.


----------------------
Site Update - March 1, 2013

    We have applied a small follow-up update to address a few issues that arose following our Feb 26th update.

    Code Updates:

        Fixed the 'Air Control' Start-a-Match option.
        Fixed the Freeze Tag 'Round Delay 0' Start-a-Match option.
        Fixed the 'Teams are tied at 0' team score message.
        Round based games once again will kick players after 180 seconds of inactivity, but the new code will now accumulate time across rounds, but does not count time dead/froze/paused against them.
        Addressed an issue that would perpetuate telefrags in some round based gametypes, when a map had too few spawn points available.



---------------------------------------

Service Update Part 2  2013-05-01

    Early Monday morning, the QUAKE LIVE infrastructure suffered a major outage impacting stability and performance. Over the past 48 hours, we've been working to resolve the issue, and have now restored service to the public. While all attempts have been made at ensuring the site remains stable, we may run into intermittent issues going forward, so please continue to be patient while we work through any remaining issues.

    The outage forced us to rollback around 6 hours of data, from approximately Monday 2AM CDT, to 7AM CDT. This has the following implications on end-users:

        Any accounts created between in the above time window will have to be recreated.
        Changes to your profile, settings/binds, friends, and other account data may need to be recreated.
        The scheduled content release has been delayed until the site's stability is established.
        Compensation for the downtime will also be announced once the site is presumed stable.


-----------------------------------------

QLPP17 Site Update - May 7, 2013

    QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 17 is now online. This update features three new arenas from both community members, and a new in-house arena targeted at our Clan Arena mode. We are also announcing our plans to players in response to our recent downtime.

    Premium Arenas Added

        Repent:

            Repent is a new Clan Arena map from id Software. Set in the bowels of a decaying place of worship, the forgotten elder god who calls this cathedral home has grown angry and jaded towards mankind in his years of solitude. Refusing to be cast aside and banished to the nether realms, he now holds together his decaying cathedral with every ounce of power left in him.

            Repent excels in Clan Arena matches ranging from 2v2 up to 8v8, and has unique item layouts and additional support for Free For All, Duel, Team Deathmatch (2v2), Freeze Tag, and Red Rover.

        Arcane Citadel:

            Making a return to their TDM roots the authors of Purgatory and Limbus, 'akm' and 'Yellack', bring us the gothic beauty of Arcane Citadel. Here combatants battle for control between the moon-lit quad courtyard and the perilous battle-suit pit, and with no Railgun in sight, players must fully commit to their fight if they wish to regain control of lost territory. Arcane Citadel also comes with its own mood music, a new sinister sounding music track by re:deep.

            Crafted for 4v4 Team Deathmatch, Arcane Citadel also supports for Free For All, Clan Arena, Freeze Tag, Domination, and Red Rover.

        Cure:

            Ferdinand 'cityy' List, the author of Silence, debuts his latest duel arena, Cure, in Quake Live. Cure is set in a mid-century European village where an abandoned post-war sanatorium resides. Twisting halls leading through and between highly vertical multi-tiered alleyways, commonly result in visceral close quarter combat as players stragetically chose their paths through this spacious villa.

            Cure has been designed for Duel, and includes additional support for Free For All, Team Deathmatch (2v2), Clan Arena, Freeze Tag, and Red Rover.

    Code Updates:

        Hud Scorebox Element fixed on Large HUD.
        No longer allow servers owners to be kicked via 'callvote clientkick'.


    Arena Changes

        Overkill
        - Resolved a large number of z-fighting issues.
        Warehouse
        - Added additional spawn points to better facilitate large matches and reduce spawn frags.
        Wargrounds
        - Added additional spawn points to better facilitate large matches and reduce spawn frags.


    Additionally, as a token of our appreciate for your patience through our recent downtime, we are happy to announce the following:

        Subscriptions Extended: The expiration date for all subscriptions have been extended by 3 days, to make up for lost time.

        Free Premium Arena Weekend: We are opening up access to all arenas from Friday, May 10th through Sunday, May 12th. Players will be able to play on all arenas at all membership levels, and our Pro subscribers will be able to launch standard matches utilizing the full array of maps.

        Accept our Repentance: The new Clan Arena map from id Software, Repent, will be added to this month's Standard Map Rotation and available for everyone to play beginning today.


------------------------------

QLPP18 Follow-up Update    2013-07-18

    This evening we applied a small follow-up update to address a few minor issues that arose due to our recent QLPP18 update.

    July 19th Changelog:

        Restored Weapon Config functionality for subscribers.
        Restored power-ups section on the Large HUD.
        Prevented team frag based medals (Defense) from being awarded in Clan Arena when playing on CTF arenas.
        Removed the barred gates from Double Impact in Race.
        Removed an undesired Race spawn on Double Impact.
        Added cg_drawHitFriendTime to allow players to disable the orange hit triangle, or alter its blink duration. Defaults to 1500 (1.5 seconds).
        Lowered the default value of cg_drawDeadFriendTime from 5000.0f to 3000.0f (5 seconds to 3 seconds).


    Deployed Thu, July 18th:

        Addressed a back-end issue that would cause some standard-users Race matches to report a Win/Loss.


    Deployed Wed, July 17th:

        Removed an undesired Race spawn on Distant Screams.
        Addressed a Race player collision issue on Eviscerated.
        Added Race support to Space CTF.


-------------------------------------

QLPP19 Site Update - October 8, 2013

    QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 19 is now online. This update features three new Premium arenas.

    Premium Arenas Added

        Future Crossings:

            Making its way to QUAKE LIVE from Quake 3 Arena, Future Crossings makes its debut from author Dan "Scancode" Gold. As the name implies, Future Crossings takes place in a futuristic space base. The flag sits alone in the middle of the base on the mid-level, surrounded by both higher and lower ground, making for unpredictable escape routes. Teams will fight for the Quad Damage in the middle, with armor serving as a sniper roost for people wishing to ply their Railgun skills. Future Crossings is now available for play in all flag-based gametypes and Race.

        Gospel Crossings:

            Gospel Crossings is a Capture the Flag arena that takes the fight to multiple levels of a gothic cathedral. Created by Dan "Scancode" Gold, Gospel Crossings is another classic CTF arena returning to QUAKE LIVE. Defenders will find a multitude of ways in and out that they have to defend, especially the jumppad leading from the bottom level behind the flag. A Quad Damage is up for grabs in the middle, but a fog pit is the only thing waiting to greet players. Gospel Crossings is available in all flag-based gametypes, Domination, and Race.

        Railyard:

            Railyard has been rebuilt from the ground up, new exclusively for QUAKE LIVE. Formerly known as Silly Railings by Dan "Scancode" Gold, Railyard is a small Capture the Flag arena where all the action takes place in one room. Stacks of crates are available for cover, with jumppads behind them for popping up and railing. Nothing but some abandoned railroad tracks separates the two teams. Railyard is available in all flag-based gametypes, Race, and definitely excels for small One Flag CTF matches.

    Premium Game Modes

            We are now hosting public premium servers for the Domination and Attack & Defend game modes, making these game modes readily available to our Premium players.

    Game Changes

        Direct hits from projectile weapons will no longer be sometimes incorrectly detected as 0 distance splash damage hits.
        Fixed a force model bug with Orbb that would cause him to not scale properly.
        Fixed a crash that occurred when attempting to play the optional training skill test.
        Improved tracking of g_startingHealthBonus and g_weaponRespawnTime when callvoting between rulesets.
        Added timeout/pause support to RACE.
        Fixed "in in" typo in the race finish message.
        Death POI icons now scale according to cg_drawFriendMaxWidth and cg_drawFriendMinWidth.
        Network cvar changes:
        - 'rate' now defaults to '25000' and is a latched cvar, requiring a game restart before a new value can take effect.
        - 'cl_maxpackets' now defaults to '125' and is a latched cvar, requiring a game restart before a new value can take effect.


    Arena Changes

        Updated Delirium
        - Added 3 x 25 hp
        - Added 2 extra spawns for duel, and another 2 more for TDM/FFA
        - Added elevator to lower YA area
        - Fixed LG->RA teleporter not working in TDM
        - Replaced stairs with elevators at RA and MH areas
        - Opened up lower RA area
        - 2-way teleporter at RA changed to 1-way
        - Lower YA teleporter now exits at upper MH
        - New teleporter in mid which exits at the old YA teleporter exit
        - Some areas re-made for a cleaner / different look
        - Weapon clip added to bumpy ground to increase effectiveness of rocket splash damage
        - Lots of small tweaks to make the map faster and more fluid
        Updated Eye to Eye
        - Increased spawncount to prevent server crashes in large team games.
        Updated Repent
        - Fixed shader file that was breaking Repent's item decals.
        Updated Terminatria
        - Multiple texture and clipping fixes
        - Performance improved
        - Duel mode made smaller, with item layout changes to suit


---------------------------------------

Site Update - February 26, 2013

    Today's update is an interim update featuring many fixes to improve the game experience, and numerous fixes and gameplay improvements to our arenas.

    Duel Updates

        Premium Duel Scoreboard now preserves match data, addressing issues caused by forfeited matches or disconnected players.
        Duels can no longer start with more than 2 players, who were added via the admin 'put' command.
        Server admins may no longer use the 'put' command to place more than two players into a match in progress.
        Server admins may no longer use of the 'allready' command if more or less than two players are in the match.
        Fixed Duel's short name display to read "DUEL" instead of "DM" on the Premium Duel Scoreboard.


    Round Based Game Mode Updates

        Players who die during a round countdown will now immediately respawn alive, rather than be excluded from the round as a dead player.
        Inactivity kicks are no longer triggered while dead or frozen.
        Players are now dropped after 25 seconds of inactivity in round based game modes.
        Fixed players in Freeze Tag from being able to prematurely fire if they respawned during a match or round countdown.
        In addition to held power-ups, we now remove dropped power-ups between rounds in Freeze Tag.
        Players may no longer use of the 'forfeit' command during round countdowns.
        Prevent infected from getting weapons in warmup in Infected Red Rover.
        Fixed instaInfected, zombies were spawning with the set Starting Weapons value instead of just gauntlets.
        Gametypes that do not allow item spawning will now utilize the best starting weapons order in warmup, if no weapons are present.


    PQL Ruleset Updates

        Increased the consistency of the chain jump boost, also improving telejumps.
        Increased the speed gained by circle strafing.
        Increased the speed while turning with air control.
        Clamp weapon respawn time to a minimum of 10 seconds.
        Max ammo values decreased in item collection based gametypes.
        - MG: 100, SG: 20, GL: 20, RL: 20, LG: 100, RG: 20, PG: 100, BFG: 10, NG: 20, PL: 5, CG: 100
        Adjusted player respawn delay, now within a 0.5 and 3.5 second window.
        Vertical jump velocity gets capped, keeping the cumulative effect of chain jumps in check.
        Draw Tiered Armor Availability icons added to inform players when an armor is unavailable for pickup.
        Removed extraneous console variable spam when rulesets are changed.


    Misc Game Updates

        Removed /systeminfo command, could be exploited to cause a client crash.
        Rail trails are now properly aligned with the gun barrel, taking custom values of cg_gunX/Y/Z into account.
        Re-enabled the TeamKill Complaint system.
        Fixed an issue that would occur when using a medkit with more than 125HP and firing the weapon in the same frame.
        Lightning Gun muzzle point is positioned correctly when crouching.
        Fixed clientside prediction errors when using custom values of RampJumpScale.
        Weapon Gravity options in Start-a-Match now properly take in account custom values of g_gravity.
        Freecam spectating no longer uses a third person offset, and custom values of cg_thirdPersonAngle will no longer break spec cameras.
        Smoothed out changes in height/viewheight when the spectatorCam flies into a flight of stairs.
        Smooth out viewheight change when crouching while in third person.
        Allow +moveup/+movedown on ladders to help dictate direction (ala Q2). This allows you to be looking up as you crawl down the ladder.
        Draw "-" on the scoreboard in place of the -999 forfeit score on all scoreboard feeders.
        Corrected end game scoreboard messages during a forfeit. "You finished with a score of -999"
        Corrected end game scoreboard messages in Harvester, and improved capture messages when only one capture was made.


    Web Updates

        Added 5 Premium Experience PQL Awards
        - Too Fast: Complete 1 online PQL match.
        - Air Bender: Complete 1 online PQL match in Duel, Capture the Flag, Clan Arena, and Team Deathmatch.
        - Paratrooper: Complete 100 online PQL matches.
        - Dogfighter: Complete 500 online PQL matches.
        - Ethereal: Complete 1,000 online PQL matches.


    Arena Updates

        Aerowalk
        - Fixed a hall of mirrors effect on the green armor teleporter.
        - Fixed the skywalk ceiling clip exploit.
        - Fixed the alignment of the ceiling clips in the lightning gun room and the central atrium.
        - Fixed clipping above two door archways.
        - Fixed texture alignment on trim of the teleporter exit ledge.
        - Made the fencing no longer cast shadows so that you can see the pipe detail work behind them.
        - Fixed the mispositioned weaponclip on the fencing near yellow armor.
        - Improving lighting, getting rid of the black wall section near the grenade launcher teleporter and the black stair faces in mid.
        - Improved the positioning of some of the small ceiling lights.
        - Fixed the position of the angled light near high RL.
        Campgrounds
        - Fixed texture alignments on the upper level floors, near both railgun and rocket launcher.
        Foolish legacy
        - Removed the no-weapon-drop from the waterfog in the megahealth pool.
        Infinity
        - Added a new route from mid to high base rocket launcher.
        - Added a ladder connection between the water tube and the new high route.
        - Moved the railgun to the new water tunnel ledge.
        - Removed one of the spawns near plasmagun and one of the spawns near the mid shotgun.
        - Added a wall in the perimeter to give the teleporter pool more cover.
        - Added 25hp to the new doorway in mid.
        - Added 25hp to the teleporter pool.
        - Made water in mid deeper, added underwater route below the bridge.
        - Fixed skull dispenser in Harvester.
        Left Behind
        - Removed no-weapon-drop from the waterfog in the railgun pool.
        Overkill
        - Renamed the 'Visor courtyard' to 'Ranger courtyard'.
        - Fixed z-fighting in hall near Ranger courtyard.
        - Fixed texture misalignment on floor near fog pit.
        - Removed some exploitative clips.
        - Clipped some exploitative ledges.
        Quarantine
        - Fixed two clips on the staircase between red armor and the back teleporter.
        Reflux
        - Fixed texture alignment on curved brick wall by megahealth.
        Realm of Steel Rats
        - Texture density and alignment fixed on the curved brick walls in the lightning gun, lower rocket launcher, and quad rooms.
        Space Chamber
        - Fixed the inappropriately sized red armor item timer due to a stray 'team' key on the item.
        Terminatria
        - Total Health increased from 525 to 700.
        - Total Armor increased from 235 to 280.
        - Jump pad behind the railgun area replaced with teleporter
        - Quad and Megahealth areas rebuilt.
        - Numerous graphical and gameplay orientated tweaks.
        - Duel mode added - item and weapons layouts changes, upper Rocket Launcher and Grenade Launcher rooms are blocked off.
        - Duel mode: Two way teleporter added at the Lightning Gun.
        - Made tesla sfx on teleporter nonsolid
        - Replaced cables with a new dark cable version for improved alpha blend
        - Fixed trim construction near quad
        - Fixed trim construction near lg
        - Fixed texture alignment on all volumetric lights
        - Fixed wall texture scale behind GA teleporter
        - Fixed stair ramps near quad
        - Deleted obscured portions of the decorative pipes outside of the arena
        - Cleanup, making some structural brushes into detail brushes
        The Edge
        - Removed the no-weapon-drop from the waterfog in the railgun pool.
        Wicked
        - Fixed duplicate spawn point at RL spawn, which caused an imbalance in the spawn point selection process.



--------------------------------

Engine Update 1/03  2014

    We've just rolled out an updated engine for QUAKE LIVE. The only change in this revision is support for rendering the browser on older and integrated chipsets. To apply the update, simply quit the game and run it through the launcher to get the latest assets.

    We are continuing to monitor our support channels for issues, and will continue to deploy engine updates, including some fixes for performance while in the browser next week. 


----------------------------------
 Engine Update 1/10  2014

    We've just deployed an updated engine for QUAKE LIVE.

        Fixed an issue that would lead to the friends list not showing. There may be other causes remaining, so if you're still running into this issue, ensure your friends are still appearing in the console.
        Added web_zoom cvar to control zoom level of webpage for people playing on high DPI displays or TVs. Default is 100. There is not yet a place in the UI to set zoom.


    1/10 Changes:

        Reworked browser rendering to be much more CPU efficient when idling.

--------------------------
 Game Update 2/18  2014

    Today's release is a maintenance update to address a small number of exploits revealed in recent weeks, as well as address an outstanding issue in our spawn code which would result in server crashes when a match had more players than spawn points. Toss in an important bot update to restore their ability to proper switch weapons when out of ammo, and some callvote validation checks and we have a nice little update to test out our first scheduled update since moving to a standalone client.

    Code Updates:

        Fixed an exploit in the autodownload system that could cause players to respawn without penalty.
        Fixed an exploit that would allow players to score lower in Race than they normally would.
        Fixed an exploit in the callvote system that would allow players to empty the server.
        Round based games, such as Clan Arena, will no longer crash when the server has more players than spawn points, and the map has no team spawn points to fall back on as a last resort.
        Bots will now switch weapons after running out of ammo.
        Removed 'Connection Interrupted' message that occurs after a map_restart under normal connectivity conditions.
        Improved argument validation on most of the callvote commands.

-----------------------

QLPP20 Site Update - March 13, 2014

    QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 20 is now online. This update features four new Premium arenas, including content originating from Rocket Arena 3 and Threewave CTF.

    Premium Arenas Added

        Monastery:

            From Mike 'g1zm0' Burbidge's Rocket Arena 3 creations Three Story and Cannery, comes a new arena Monastery. Set in the bowels of broken hallowed grounds, Monastery possesses two outside courtyards and a slew of tattered structures surrounding a tall broken tower. Designed for large Clan Arena matches, Monastery also comes brewed with Free for All and Freeze Tag support.

        Shaken Not Stirred:

            Making its long awaited return from Rocket Arena 3 comes Shaken Not Stirred. Designed by Adam Bellefeuil, author of the Liquid Blue RA3 quadrilogy (Electric Head, Somewhat Damaged, Window Pain, and Shaken Not Stirred), this abandoned mountainous spring water base expands upon our smaller CA arena, Seams and Bolts, making it better suited for large Clan Arena matches (4v4 & up). Shaken Not Stirred was also forged with support for Free For All, Freeze Tag, as well as a checkpoint Race course.

        City Crossings:

            Making its way to QUAKE LIVE from Threewave CTF, City Crossings follows on the success of author Dan "Scancode" Gold's acclaimed works Spider Crossings and Future Crossings. City Crossings winds through the interior of a tall futuristic cityscape. The flag base sits below a tall rooftop perch where defenders can protect their carrier. The two cities come to a dramatic clash lacking a true middle ground. Players must protect both the tight choke point in mid as well as their perimeter Regen room if they wish to keep their base safe. City Crossings is available in all flag-based gametypes, and Race.

        Divine Intermission:

            A fun aside to play between the more competitive matches, Divine Intermission reminds us that this is all just fun and games. Inside this cathedral two teams will spawn armed with only shotguns and grenades. and clear view of the enemy's flag. See who can race between the spray of pellets and 'nades to be ordained victorious. Divine Intermission is available in all flag-based gametypes, and Race.

    Game Changes

        Spawn code updated to now use deferred spawns, to reduce the likelihood of telefrags due to too few spawn points.


    Arena Changes

        Added additional spawn points to the following maps:
        - Devilish
        - Hell's Gate Redux
        - Hidden Fortress


--------------------
 Engine Update 2/17   2014

    We've just deployed an updated engine for QUAKE LIVE.

        Improved in-game overlay getting in a mixed up state when entering or exiting matches through non-standard means.
        Prevent aliases from overriding built-in commands
        Removed ad from website match details.
        Tooltips will now show more than the first line of content. You still need to be in windowed mode in order for tooltips to appear, however.

-------------------
 Standalone Update - Dec 17, 2013

    We are happy to announce the first release of the new QUAKE LIVE standalone client. Existing users can easily upgrade by logging in, and downloading the installer when asked. Running QUAKE LIVE from the Start Menu or Desktop will now update your game through the launcher, before loading up QUAKE LIVE and logging you into the website from the built in browser.

    Holiday Content Added!

        Silent Night:

            Not breaking with a five year tradition, the terrain-based CTF arena Silent Night is back. Otherwise known as Distant Screams, Silent Night is a fast-paced map taking place in a nameless tundra. Bases are peppered with jetpack style Flight powerup, along with the self-damage reducing Scout rune. Combine the two, and a bit of skill, and you're able to achieve breakneck speed.

        Winter's Edge:

            Making a return appearance as our annual Holiday Arena in a new and shiny state, Winter's Edge. A port of Quake II's The Edge. Winter's Edge will be to available for a limited time in the standard map pool, and in on our Holiday Servers in both FreezeTag and InstaFreeze variations.

    Additional Code Changes:

        Restored Attack & Defend flag drops when carriers are fragged.
        Fixed Self Splash Damage applying an incorrect amount of damage.
        Fixed some ruleset issues that were overriding Start a Match settings.
        Fixed missing Sudden Death VO in Round Based games about to end due to timelimit.
        Raised com_maxfps max from 125 to 250, default remains at 125.
        New link to Friends List overlay in the in-game menu, to access friends, chats, invites, and Join Match URL.
        Disallow callvote clientkicking bots from Infected matches, to protect the Mastermind.
        Fixed hit registration on the cg_weaponConfig clear button in in-game Options menu.
        Updated UI to have options for r_lodBias -2, and -1.
        Made r_lodBias CVAR_LIMITED with a range of -2 to 2, keeping the default at 0.
        Remove atmospheric effects option from the Ingame Menu.
        Deprecated screenshotSocial
        Added cvarAdd and cvarMulti to allow modifying cvars by a specific value (eg cvarAdd cg_fov 5 to add 5 to your FOV on every keypress)


    Map Changes:

        Windsong Keep
        - Fixed the texturing on three archways.
        - Fixed clipping above two archways that were being abused.
        - Added an intermission camera.

------------------------

QLPP21 Site Update - May 14, 2014

    QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 21 is now online. This update features one free arena, and five new Premium arenas.

    Limited Time Offering!

        Campgrounds Intel®

            Hot on this morning's QuakeCon news of Intel's sponsorship of the Quake Live Duel Masters Invitational Championship, we're pleased to introduce players to a special time limited offering made possible thanks to the generosity of Intel. For the next three months, Campgrounds: Intel Edition will have a place in our standard arena rotation for everyone to enjoy. This newly built and themed version of our beloved Campgrounds is adorned with bits of tech and a fun intel blue and white color palette. We hope you enjoy their gift in the months leading up to QuakeCon 2014.

    Premium Arenas Added

        Arkinholm

            Designed by the TDM all-star, Richard 'noctis' Gansterer, and detailed by Chad 'Despair' Younger, Arkinholm is a brand new arena, set in a sprawling gothic medieval village. Players will find themselves winding through alleys and corridors through the various outdoor market areas holding not only fresh fruits and vegetables, but also weapons and items. A Quad Damage is available, but only for those travelling into the seedy underworld, suspended in the middle of a swamp. Arkinholm is also great for Free For All, and Clan Arena matches.

        Dead and Gone

            From author David 'SgtGhost' Levesque comes 'Dead and Gone', one of Rocket Arena 3's most recently widely requested small Clan Arena levels. Taking place in one open room, players will find themselves going for the high ground. Be aware of the middle of the arena, however, because a lone jumpad will expose your backside to those creeping along the ledges. Dead and Gone is also available for small Free For All matches.

        Hen House

            Rocket Arena 3 mapping legend Till Merker, author of Theatre of Pain, Evolution, and Thunderstruck, has graced us with another of his works. From his ra3map12 collection 'Frag Like an Egyptian' comes a new treat for large CA fans, Hen House. Don't expect to be cooped up in this arena, however, as the rooms are large and open, rewarding those who can rocket jump and strafe jump through its hallways. Players experienced with the Railgun will find themselves an easier time here, as there are plenty of opportune sniping spots. Hen House also plays great in Domination.

        McSarge's

            Ferdinand 'cityy' List, creator of 'Cure' and 'Silence', brings us another Duel arena for our enjoyment. This alternate-reality western mining town is where Sarge has took up shop to fund an escalating war between the locals. McSarge's is a very tall arena with a lot of nooks and crannies to navigate through. You'll want to control most of the major items, found along the bottom floors of the arena, especially the very potent Lightning Gun, Yellow Armor, and Mega Health area. Otherwise, run on over and grab the Red Armor, Rocket Launcher, and Green Armor, also within easy reach. McSarge's also plays great in Free For All.

        New Cerberon

            Straight from the pages of the Mapping Corner forum, we're pleased to bring you 'New Cerberon'. From the up and coming designer EmeraldTiger, New Cerberon heralds the first look at the Strogg's recreation of their fallen capital following the vicious war between the Strogg and the Global Defense Forces. Their knack for oddly symmetrical designs happens to work out great for gladiators teleported in for Capture the Flag action, with a classic base design that can be attacked in different low, medium, and high routes. Between the bases lies an open area holding various smaller items, and a Rocket Launcher, although plenty of angles exist for players who have grabbed the Railgun.


    Game Changes

        Added new server admin commands: Mute and Unmute
        Remaining time on dropped power-ups will now decay when the "/droppowerup" command is used.
        CTF flags no longer auto-return when a carrier uses "/kill".
        Added options for Respawn Timers on the competition spec HUD, So that casters can disable yellow armor timing in team games.
        Added 144Hz and 240Hz display refresh options to the menu.
        Fixed a logic bug that allowed some players who did not have the desired privileges to call "/timein".
        Round countdowns increased from 7 to 10 seconds.
        Dynamic lights are no longer disabled with "r_vertexLight 1". Toggle dynamic lights with "r_dynamicLight".
        Limit cointoss parameters to heads or tails (or blank).
        Server join passwords no longer write to configs.
        Custom values of "r_lodBias" now save to config.
        Fixed some non-power-of-two textures reported on Intervention that would pop & distort at certain distances.
        Updated Premium Icon for in-game premium scoreboards.
        Fixed Xaero's skin; the body was improperly lit.


    Arena Changes

        Divine Intermission - Fixed spawn point missing the free sg+gl.
        Campgrounds - Fixed bot support.
        Delirium - Fixed teleporter
        Devilish - Removed new spawns from TDM
        Hektik - Fixed teleporter
        Hidden Fortress - Removed new spawns from TDM


----------

Site Update - July 10, 2014

    We've just applied a promised follow-up update to address a few outstanding issues before we move forward to QuakeCon!

    Game Updates:

        Fixed undesirable 'joined the spectators' join messages
        Fixed remaining player indicators on FreezeTag scoreboard
        Fixed stuck "vote in progress" menu after disconnecting during a callvote
        Fixed dropped power-up decay issue caused by pauses and timeouts


----------

Site Update - July 9, 2014

    Today we have released a small update for QUAKE LIVE. As of today, several of the classically "premium-only" features have been cycled into the realm of standard-content for everyone to enjoy. In the coming updates we will now be adding new features for our subscribers to enjoy, but we felt that now was a good time to begin making some of our long standing perks available to everyone who plays. In addition to this we've also included a number of small fixes and improvements.

    Features moved to Standard accounts:

        Advanced Scoreboards, including a newly added Freeze Tag scoreboard
        Killbeep Sounds
        Quad and Battle Suit Kill Counters
        Weapon Config Menu
        Define your preferred order of starting weaposn (cg_preferredStartingWeapon)
        Force Team Skin and Force Enemy Skin options


    Game Updates:

        New overhead teammate indicators (friendly triangles) that relay teammate health status
        Reduced default cg_drawHitFriendTime to 100ms to better suit the new icon system
        New teammate death icon to clearly distinguish hurt teammates from dead teammates under the new health icon system
        Teammate crosshair names now use the same health color indicators as the new overhead icons
        Don't display dead teammate icons in FreezeTag (as their frozen icon will be present)
        Broadcast a power-up pickup chat message to inform you who picked up a freshly spawned power-up
        Crosshair hit style now defaults to damage colors.
        cg_drawCrosshair was defaulting to different values in cg_main and ui_main, they now both default to "2"
        All clients will now use cl_maxpackets 125.
        Print when an admin passes or vetoes a callvote.
        Fixed a bug that would add marks to the surface of thin volumes of liquid near an impact. (Reported on Terminatria)
        Fixed crosshair 14's broken alpha channel
        For the nostalgic ones, added the original Q3 crosshairs: 20-29
        Minor fixes to the UI/HUD files
        Fixed a lot of non-power of two textures that were reported to be causing issues.
        Added Start-a-Match commands to tab auto-complete
        No longer default to using forced bright models.


    Arena Updates:

        Arcane Citadel - Battle Suit switched for MH, JP added at MH ledge, PG (at high YA) switched for RL
        Arkinholm - Added Race support
        Blood Run - Fixed clipping at YA ad
        Brimstone Abbey - Fixed doubled over health bubbles in team modes, Fixed clipping in curves
        Double Impact - Removed the RA room. Placed RA in mid. Teleporters in mid low, go to mid high.
        Hen House - Added Race support
        New Cerberon - Race and DOM support
        Overkill - Fixed stray quad stuck in solid
        Pillbox - Added two spawns in mid.
        Silence - Fixed wall supports near RA that didn't touch the wall.
        Terminatria - Fixed NPOT item decals


----------

QLPP18 Site Update - July 16, 2013

    QUAKE LIVE Premium Pak 18 is now online. This update features the launch of the new Race gametype, along with four new Premium arenas.

    New Game Mode: Race

    Brand new to QUAKE LIVE is the Race gametype, which puts a non-combat spin on Quake. Players race against the clock and each other to earn the fastest time. Race takes place on both deathmatch and CTF arenas, challenging players to race from checkpoint to checkpoint taking the most efficient route. Players spawn using PQL physics, which allows for enhanced air control, and a wider variety of movement, topped with higher speed potential. A Rocket Launcher and Plasma Gun are also made available to navigate the tricky bends and turns. Matches end when the timelimit is reached, and the player with the shortest run is declared the winner.

    In addition, we are running Standard Race matches, available to both free and paid QUAKE LIVE players. These matches will be running all 43 arenas currently supported by the Race mode, and can be voted to at will. Standard players joining these matches will be able to try the mode and practice running through the courses, however they will not be able to record times or complete matches. This will not count against the Standard player's stats, and being invited to a Pro Race match will work as usual. We hope players enjoy Race, and can't wait to see the videos and tricks everyone discovers!

    Premium Arenas Added

        Delirium:

            Created by Terminatria author Russell "bst" Vint, Delirium is a Duel arena set in a futuristic facility. The arena consists of three levels, connecting through large, curvacious hallways. Delirium is larger than the typical Duel arena, benefiting players that can navigate through rooms quickly, and cutting off your opponent to prevent them from grabbing Yellow and Red Armors. Best suited for 2 to 6 players, Delirium is also playable in small Clan Arena and FFA matches.

        Fuse:

            Fuse, created by Ferdinand "cityy" List is a Duel arena new to QUAKE LIVE. A mixture of outdoor and indoor areas, the action in Fuse takes place primarily in three different rooms, connected on multiple levels. Duelers will find themselves attempting to control a Yellow Armor, Red Armor, and Mega Health. Fuse features a lot of thin ledges, useful for trickjumping or ambushing opponents below. Fuse also plays great in FFA, 2v2 TDM, and Clan Arena modes for matches between 2 and 6 players.

        Golgotha Core:

            Golgotha Core is a large Free For All arena, featuring a health and armor generator for players looking for a quick boost. Large rooms built with long lines of sight favors those who love the Railgun. A power-up heavy arena, you'll want to control either the cycling Haste/Invisibility, and Quad Damage, both located in the bottom of the space. Made for 4 to 12 players, Golgotha Core is also playable in Clan Arena, Freeze Tag, Domination, and Red Rover modes.

        Pillbox:

            Pillbox is a brand new Capture the Flag arena with fast captures and fast action. Defenders have a couple of tricks at their disposal, including a pressure plate to activate a crusher to stop camping enemies, and a bridge that drops into the lava that also houses a Mega Health. Attackers can take the rear route into the base, and pop a few grenades down a hatch that routes to the flag. A power-up in the midfield ensures the defense can't play too far back. Designed for 4v4 play, Pillbox can be played with 2-5 players per team, and also supports One Flag, Harvester, Domination, and Attack & Defend.

    Invite Monitor

    The new Invite Monitor, accessible from above the friends-list while connected to a match, is a more transparent way to handle invites to Premium and Pro matches. Players can see at a glance which invites are currently active for the match, and are given the ability to revoke invites. Match owners will be able to see who invited everybody, and revoke others' invites at their own discretion. Standard guests are also shown, allowing players to see who is currently on through an invite. Finally, a manual invite button at the bottom allows players to invite other players by name.

    In addition to the new Invite Monitor, we have changed the invite system so that revoking an invite to a Standard player on a Premium match will cause them to be removed from the match after the end of the current match. The length invitations are active has been lengthened from 15 minutes to three hours, after which you will have to re-invite players.

    Game Changes

        Team Overhead Icons Updates - The friendly triangles now change from yellow to orange when a teammate takes damage, and from orange to red when a teammate dies. You may control how long the red triangle marker remains at the place of their death with cg_drawDeadFriendTime (0-5000 ms)
        New CA Round Won messages note how many players were on the winning team, or if only one player was left standing, notes how much health they had remaining.
        Round Draw Tie Breaker options for CA: Draws by Health, Draws by Living options in Start a Match under Gametype Settings.
        Fixed the pause or timeout admin commands in round-based gametypes when used during round countdowns.
        Spawn Code Changes to reduce telefrags on match starts, resolving issues on maps with too few spawn points.
        Added CA and FT support to our CTF arenas. While these arenas will not appear in public match arena pools, they are now optional via Start a Match.
        Userinfo flood protection is now enabled again.
        Added align support to CG_PLAYER_SCORE, CG_1STPLACE, and CG_2NDPLACE HUD elements, and fixed their alignment behavior within our HUD files. Adjustments may need to be made to custom HUDs utilizing these ownerdraw elements, see our three official huds for examples.
        Added two new HUD elements added for RACE, CG_RACE_STATUS and CG_RACE_TIMES, see our three official huds for examples.
        Updated all gametype icons (in-game and web), added in-game race icon. Minor tweaks to others. TDM goes back to the classic QL TDM icon.


    Arena Changes

        Cure
        - Updated spawns: 12 spawns, 6 initial.
        - Fixed a missing clip allowing players to hide at the 50 HP bubble staircase.
        - Fixed a clipping issue in the low hallway between MH and RA.
        - Replaced the lightning ammo box above RA with shells.
        - Clipped hiding spot above the GA near PG.
        Lost World
        - Fixed exploitative clip above LG.
        Phrantic
        - Fixed reversed 1x1 ad.
        Repent
        - Fixed HOM at the Great Hall circle window sill.
        - Added two ad spots.
        Sinister
        - Removed low RA spawn.
        - New one-way teleporter.
        - Removed 60sec RG spawn + Gong.
        - Swapped MH - RG.
        - Added Pillar @ RA.
        - Replaced GA with another YA (different location).


B
B


----------
Quake Live Update - August 27, 2014

    Last month at QuakeCon we announced that Quake Live would be coming to Steam and with that expansion take on some new gameplay changes and features. At that time, we did not have many specifics to share as we were poised to keep an open mind as to what our future would look like, and wanted to see how we could introduce a wider audience to the game we so dearly love. Quake is a masterful game of skill, often compared to Chess by its veteran players. However, with that depth has come a challenge to welcome and capture new players long enough for them to discover the joy to be found in what many consider the finest Deathmatch game ever made.

    For some of us that joy is simply nostalgia of our early days, an introduction to online FPS that ushered in a new era of gaming. For many it is a love of mastery, striving to become better in a competitive world that seems to have no upper bounds. It is a game of limitless growth where the movement, strategy, and perfection of aim seem to be an extension of our human selves where hard work, dedication, and confidence can translate into a measurable improvement that brings a great pride to our players. While Quake will always be a home to the competitive base, we have often longed for a wider audience who could experience, appreciate, and fall in love with all that it has to offer.

    For new players, it has been quite clear what the greatest barriers are: effectiveness on spawn, movement, and item control. These elements on several levels also make our game great, so we wanted to see what could be done to make the game a more enjoyable experience, all while teaching players a bit of the meta-game depth.
    We tested several ideas including granting players better starting weapons and compared that to the lessons learned in Clan Arena where players get to try out various weapons and see their effectiveness each round. We found that providing the player one single "primary" weapon of their choice in addition to letting them have a bit more freedom as to which "secondary" they spawn with allows players to try out various weapons and become more effective on spawn which has been the key complaint of newcomers. Meanwhile we still want to highly encourage picking up weapons throughout the arena, so we have minimized the amount of ammo granted on spawn so that players will continue to roam and gather both weapons and ammo. Allowing the new behavior of choosing some starting weapons greatly improved the experience in modes such as FFA and TDM and helped make some of the more chaotic modes like Domination quite enjoyable. Hence, Domination will now be ran publicly for all to play.

    Additionally we wanted to find a way to teach players a few core bits of information concerning item timing. We have introduced item timers, present transparently in the world (not on your HUD), that all relay item respawn information under the following design guidelines: Each item timer has a radial display divided into slices. Elapsed time is drawn as solid slices. Each slice represents 5 seconds. Active regions are represented by blinking slices that blink once per second. The timers should adequately teach players when an item is about to respawn or when it is better to move along even without this knowledge. And as players continue to play, they will begin to understand exactly how much time elapses per slice and can begin utilizing the timer indicator in coordination with their match timer to know when items will become available. To both minimize visual noise that the timers could incur and to prevent an unnecessary flood of information throughout the world, item timers are only visible while in close proximity, gently fading in as you approach.

    The final hurdle for new players to overcome was strafe jumping. We wanted to preserve strafe jumping as is, as both its intentional use and its subtle influences as you traverse the map are what make Quake feel incredibly smooth and responsive. For many of us, learning strafe jumping came naturally or for long time players was simply the foundation of our FPS experience. But we wanted to assist players and provide them with a simpler means of movement to allow them to keep up the pace as they overtime learn to more fully benefit from strafing. A basic "bunny" and auto-hop mechanic has been introduced that allows players to simply hold forward and jump to build up some speed. However, because the new bunnyjumping only provides a limited amount of accel gain, and is only effective on straightaways, players will still need to learn strafe jumping over time – we hope that this new mechanic will allow both general movement and gameplay to become more accessible encouraging them to continue to play so that they may over time become more accustom to the finer side of Quake.

    But ultimately these changes have not been introduced for the new player alone. We feel that these elements overall help bring Quake one step closer to being a modern shooter, while still holding true to our roots of remaining an incredibly fast paced old school shooter. We've had a lot of fun with these new additions, and hope that you learn to appreciate them.

    For players who have taken great pride in becoming skilled in our more challenging areas such as competitive Duel, we hope that running our FFA and Teamplay servers with these new, fun, and accessible mechanics that we can begin to build a larger base of players who could then try their luck at the Classic Duel experience. Here players will have to shed their new skin and play under slightly more challenging conditions, but ones that we know have proven themselves true in the e-sports arena.

    Sincerely,
    The Quake Live Team

    These new changes have been encapsulated within the default Quake Live ruleset:

    New Quake Live Ruleset

        Players may now hold jump to continuously jump.
        Players may now hold forward and jump to 'bunny hop', allowing them to slowly gain up to 2x their base movement speed.
        Introduced Loadouts in select modes; allowing players to select one Primary Weapon (hmg, rl, lg, rg) and one Secondary Weapon (sg, gl, pg, mg).
        Added the command "weapon toggle" to toggle between your Primary and Secondary weapons. Defaults to "f" for new users.
        Unified weapon respawn time to 5 seconds across all game modes.
        Unified friendly fire, disabled across all game modes.
        Added global Ammo Packs, in lieu of weapon specific ammo, where each pack grants you a small amount of ammo for each weapon in your inventory.
        Reduced ammo respawn time from 40 seconds to 10 seconds.
        Added in-world item timers for "major" items, including armors, megahealth, power-ups, and medkit.
        Items have taller pickup collision boxes, so that players will not miss items as they jump over them.
        Added Power-up Spawn POIs, that appear 10 seconds before a power-up spawns.
        Added Power-up POIs, that indicate when an available power-up is available in the arena.


    For players who wish to largely avoid the new major changes, the legacy style of play has been preserved within a "Classic" ruleset. All of our public Duel servers run in Classic mode. Subscribers may host additional classic servers using our "Create Match" feature. This includes the launching of Standard Classic servers, which any player may freely join.

    In addition to our major ruleset changes, the following global game changes have been made:

    General Game Changes

        Added a new weapon, the Heavy Machinegun (HMG).
        Lightning Gun now does 6 damage per cell across all rulesets, or 120 damage per second.
        New higher resolution font added.
        Widescreen Support for huds (see default huds for implementation examples).
        New in-game UI (menu and loading screens).
        Disabled the pk3 encryption. Paks can now be opened like a zip file; maps load up to 25% faster.
        Added flagstand POIs in CTF.
        Enabled self-kills with an additional 1 second respawn penalty.
        Quad firing sound reduced on high rate of fire weapons: mg, pg, cg, hmg.
        Added damage number indicators for damage dealt, can be customized by various color styles and enabled or disabled per weapon.
        Fixed a bug in that could cause the best weapon selection to fail.
        Machinegun now drops to grant users mg ammo.
        Infected zombies now have air control and can double jump.
        Fixed the CHEATS ENABLED notification on the map loading screen from lagging behind its proper state.
        Reduced the default amount of player movement bobbing.
        Reduced the default amount of damage kick movement.
        By default, don't show weapons you don't have in inventory on your weaponbar.
        By default, bob major items when simpleitems are enabled.
        Prevent broken shader image on crosshair '30', '60', '90', which would equate to crosshair "none" as the cycle repeats.
        Bots now randomly select loadouts, when applicable.
        Greatly reduced multiple pickups prediction errors.
        Removed the option to move to FreeCam while dead in elimination based gametypes.
        The PQL ruleset has been renamed 'Turbo'.
        Stonekeep map layout slightly modified.
        Trimmed out 19 maps will be added back later after being updated. (Arena Gate, Bloodlust, Cobalt Station, Concrete Palace, Dies Irae, Double Impact, Eviscerated, Focal Point, Forgotten, Golgotha Core, Hell's Gate Redux, Hero's Keep, Power Station, Proving Grounds, Sacellum, Solid, Sorrow, Space Camp, Spillway, Terminal Heights, Terminus)


    Create Match Features

        Ruleset selections (Quake Live, Turbo, Classic) are all available for standard servers.
        Now support custom values of starting ammo in AD, CA, DOM, and RR.
        Added optional Double Jump physics player movement mechanic.


    Arena Changes

        Removed Team Arena Runes from all maps.
        Proxy Launcher removed from all maps.
        Chaingun and Nailgun removed from several maps.
        Heavy Machinegun added to several maps, some depending on ruleset or mode.

-------------------------------------


Quake Live Update - September 11, 2014

    Today's update brings us a new announcer voice, several new in-game reward medals, new Play Now playlists including public standard servers for all game types, and a round of polish to address outstanding issues.

    New Announcer Voice, along with New In-Game Reward Medals!

        Combokill, damage with one weapon, and follow up with a rail kill.
        Rampage, gib three opponents, each within 3s of eachother.
        MidAir, kill an airborne enemy with a projectile.
        Revenge, kill a player who has killed you 3 or more times since you last killed them.
        First Frag, awarded to the player who earns the first frag of the match in FFA or Duel.


    New Playlists

        Players may now select Playlists from the Play Now menu that host multiple game modes. When playing on these servers, during the end-game map vote players will be able to vote to transition to a new game mode. All playlists are available for all players to join. Current playlist include:

        Team Combat: Team Deathmatch, Domination, and Freeze Tag.
        Clan Arena
        Free For All
        Capture the Flag
        Variety Pack: Attack & Defend, Harvester, Instagib FFA, One Flag CTF, Red Rover, and Quad Hog FFA.
        Duel


    Code Updates:

        Restored lightning gun knockback (while maintaining it's recent damage reduction).
        No longer dropping Machinegun in Classic.
        Damage Indicators now show the total shotgun damage dealt.
        Added spectator support for Damage Indicators.
        Enemy skulls now drop from fallen carriers in Harvester.
        Obituary messages now queue, so that we don't lose death messages.
        Obituary icons now fade out after displaying.
        Item pickup icons now fade out after displaying.
        All reward medal icons now fade out after being displayed.
        Added Infected VO when you're turned!
        Added Go! VO on Race countdown
        Added Bite! VO on Infected countdown
        Simplified flag VO (your/enemy instead of red/blue, and reduced amount of VO in places).
        Reward VO randomizes between 3 variants for Impressive, Excellent, Humiliation, ComboKill, Rampage, MidAir, Revenge.
        Fixed a bug with Holy Sh*t, it would trigger when dying near your empty flag stand.
        Fixed Weapon Toggle when switch to empty is disabled.
        The "Vote Yes / Vote No" callvote popup menu no longer appears during Intermission votes.
        Fixed the Invert Mouse option in the controls menu.
        Fixed not being able to pickup items after a score in Freeze Tag configured with no round delay.
        Tweaked distance fading behavior for item timers and powerup indicators.
        Added Pause support for world item timers and powerup indicators.
        Fixed 5:4 aspect ratio, and added support for vertical displays.
        Added cg_itemTimers to disable timer pies.
        Added cg_flagPOIs to disable flag POIs.
        Improved weapon auto switch behavior with empty primary/secondary weapons.
        Fixed stetched caster/compHUD respawn timers
        Allow weapon drops in A&D w/ loadouts.
        Removed g_weaponRespawn from rulesets so that the option would work in Create Match.
        Restored the zombie speed 1.15x
        Fixed quadHog POI shader.
        Added Your Team Scores / Enemy Scores in place of Red/Blue unless you're spec.
        Removed red/blue scores and rank change (lead taken / lead loss) from Attack & Defend, because these events only occur at the time of other VO playing (flag taken, round over, etc).
        Updated preview shots on the callvote menu to match the new levelshots.
        Default to the smaller text for low ammo warning.


    Map Updates:

        Almost Lost - QA fixes.
        Asylum - QA fixes.
        Battleforged - Fixed floating ammo pack near pg/ra
        Brimstone Abbey - Fixed floating ammo.
        Campgrounds - Fixed DOM initial spawn locations
        Demon Keep - Fixed levelshot.
        Dredwerkz - Fixed floating ammo pack near LG
        Eye to Eye - Disabled loadouts, let the map give the weapons.
        Japanese Castles
        - Converted non-ctf chaingun to hmg
        - Fixed art alignment
        - Removed info_rune_start points.
        Grim Dungeons
        - Fixed floating ammo box
        - Fixed ceiling texture misalignments
        Hearth
        - Fixed floating ammo packs
        - Added a drop down at GL
        - Changed the 50hp at GL to a MH, and placed it at the bottom of the drop down.
        - Added shards in drop down hallway.
        - Removed MG
        - Moved HMG to center of the map, moved PG to a side wing.
        - Disabled LG and RG from loadouts.
        Hell's Gate - QA fixes
        Retribution - Fixed floating ammo.
        Siberia
        - Fixed missing medkits
        - A few fixes, model origins were in solids. Converted the geo in question to detail brushes.
        - Fixed a shader issue found on Siberia, no lightmap stage.
        Space CTF - lg loadout disabled
        Stonekeep
        - Clipped the barred gate door.
        - Integrated DOM ents
        - Fixed a gap at the new mid stone model
        Tornado
        - Added levelshot
        - Fixed cellids
        Vortex Portal - Fixed spawn orientation


    Friday Update:

        Fixed lag/connection interruption that was occurring prior to the end-game scoreboard displaying.
        Fixed missing weapon icons on the Duel Scoreboard and Weapon Config menu.

-------------------------------------



QUAKE LIVE Update 22 - December 2, 2014

    QUAKE LIVE Update 22 is now online. This update features Steam Trading Cards, 9 new arenas, 1 returning renovated arena, unlocked map rotation, 1 new in-game medal, announcer VO updates and volume controls, and subscriber map voting.

    Steam Updates:

        Steam Trading Cards

            The Quake Live Steam Trading Card set has been released, featuring 11 beautifully crafted cards -- including 10 new character portraits by John Mueller, the artist behind the official Quake III Arena Visor painting! Track your trading card drop progress by checking out the "Badges" section of your Steam Community profile. Trading cards may be traded, sold, or collected. Completed card sets may be crafted into special game badges. Crafting game badges earns you cool new Steam items like emoticons, profile backgrounds, and coupons!


    New Map Rotations:

            We are retiring our Monthly Standard Map Rotation system, all maps are now free for all users at all times. All maps (with the exclusion of Small CA and large Terra maps) are available on public servers, including newly released arenas, and come up for vote in the end-game subscriber voting portal. Small CA and Terra maps are not included due to their sizes, but these maps remain available for selection by pro users via Create Match.

    New Arenas Added:

        Bitter Embrace

            Set in the stone ruins of an ancient temple, battle in the sand and beneath a golden sky in Bitter Embrace, a map that comes from Todd 'Mr. Clean' Rose. Designed for Free For All, but also plays exceptionally well in Clan Arena, Freeze Tag, and Team Deathmatch.

        Castle Deathstalker

            In the valley of a mountain pass lies a large, foreboding keep with protective walls surrounding its halls and courtyards. Designed by H. Scott 'Deathstalker' Maclean for Clan Arena, Castle Deathstalker became famous in Rocket Arena 3 for its open courtyards which allow players to explore the castle walls and roof with ease.

        Death or Glory

            This Small CA map from David 'SgtGhost' Levesque (Overkill, Dead and Gone, Revolver) leaves players fighting for cover as they launch themselves atop the wicked compass rose bridge structure.

        Drunken Mummy

            Risen from the grave by popular demand comes this RA3 legend so good even your Mum will love it. Servants of Thunderstruck, be prepared to get wrapped up in an all new arena to test the might of your lightning. Designed by Till Merker (Evolution, Hen House, Thunderstruck, Theatre of Pain). Tested and proven through the years for Small CA.

        Industrial Revolution

            Industrial Revolution hearkens back to the days when CTF was played in strange factories that specialized in slime and conveyor belts. The layout is tuned for fast but tactical gameplay. The architecture is built for three-dimensional combat. And the revolution will not be televised. Designed for CTF by author Joel 'Johnny Law' Baxter, this iron fortress is also available in Race.

        Ragnarok

            In a time past coexistance, the mythical cycle is coming to an end and the doom of the gods is percipiated by the fierce battle of hallowed elements. Sacred nordic grounds that once formed the home of the gods' children are now desecrated by a curse of frost and seclusion. Ragnarok, from authors Ferdinand 'cityy' List and Timo 'frs' Laakso, brings the fire and ice to competetive deathmatch. Designed for TDM, as well as Free For All, Race, Domination, Clan Arena and Freeze Tag the arena provides for intense combat and a journey to the norse world.

        Refinery

            Long abandoned and forgotten, Refinery is a series of complex levels and pathways. Battle from the factory's highest catwalks to its lowest pools of toxic waste. Keep your senses sharp and your reflexes primed, as danger can come from any direction in this new map from Justin 'StormShadow' Ingels. Designed for Duel, it provides an exciting challenge in Free For All

        Satanic

            A throwback to the 90's with it's over-the-top demonic presence comes Satanic, from Justin 'StormShadow' Ingels (Devilish, Cold War). Fight the forces of evil for the freedom of your soul in this cathedral of pain and lava. Fun family-friendly entertainment in Free For All, Clan Arena, and Freeze Tag.

        Solarium

            Powered and fed by the cool winds, this greenhouse habitat by Tom 'Phantazm11' Perryman (Battleforged, Black Cathedral, Corrosion) comes alive as plants sprout throughout its vertically winding halls as they reach for the light above. Available in both Duel and FFA.

    Renovated Arenas:

        Sorrow

            Remastered with a new layout, Sorrow, by Pawel 'ShadoW' Chrapka, now sports a more open and connected Red Armor room and lower lightning gun dungeon area for more exciting and visceral play. Fight to maintain control of the high ground and be rewarded with Mega Health and Yellow Armor, but not without losing sight of the lower halls where the crucial Red Armor, Lightning Gun, and Railgun lie.

    In-game Medals:

        Added new 'Perforated' in-game medal, earned by telefragging an enemy.
        Reduce max time between weapon shots for COMBOKILL from 3s to 1.5s.


    Announcer VO Changes:

        'First Frag' award extended to all appropriate gametypes, now earn it in team games as well as FFA/Duel!
        Updated VO for the "Fight!", "two frags left", and "one frag left" voice-overs.
        Added an independent volume control for the Announcer VO (s_announcerVolume).
        Added a sound buffer to properly queue the Announcer VO and remove overlapping VO sounds.
        Moved non VO sounds out of the announcer sound channel and into the local sound channel, to allow for the announcer volume controls, as well as fix some odd delays between flag returned sound and flag returned VO.
        Updated "lead taken" and "lead lost" VO behavior.
        Removed "Teams are Tied" VO to reduce VO clutter.


    Code/UI Changes:

        Removed Round Draws from Freeze Tag, now using number of living players and/or health to determine a round winner if round time limit elapses.
        Added player obituaries to all scoreboards (race excluded), this fixes the delayed obituary messages.
        Fixed the obituary icon fading, the weapon icons now fade out.
        Double stack obituaries for players killed at the same time.
        Show all obituaries for 1.5s, instead of cutting them short when a new one occurs on a following frame.
        Hide the Join Red | Join Blue buttons when the match is in progress, as those are actually treated as Join Auto buttons.
        Disallow choosing specific teams while joining during the countdown (in favor of auto-join).
        Added an overtime indicator on the HUD.
        Added Win/Loss music at the endgame scoreboard (Win/Loss background music controlled with s_musicVolume).
        Fixed swapped flag returned sounds.
        Fixed the missing/broken 'Round in Progress' spectator message when joining an elimination based game in progress.
        Restored the alignment of the timer on the comp HUD.
        No longer issue 1 & 5 Minute Warnings to players who join after that event should have occurred.
        Disable taunt animation with cg_allowTaunt 0. (Update: Also disables some weapon animations, may not be desired.)
        Added premium icons to the FFA and RR scoreboards.
        Added some padding between the CA alive icons and the team names in the comp spec hud scorebox.
        Fixed aspect ratio of caster respawn timers.
        Fixed the scores misalignment on the comphud.
        Fixed "Sudden Death" message for roundlimit 0 matches.
        Fixed incorrect ratio on Red Rover obituaries on default HUD.
        Fixed missing Red Rover obituaries on large HUD.


    Quality assurance maintenance updates for:
    (Thanks to all those who reported issues.)

        Asylum
        Base Siege
        Chemical Reaction
        Cold War
        Corrosion
        Cure
        Dead and Gone
        Dredwerkz
        Hidden Fortress
        Rebound
        Repent
        Retribution
        Seams and Bolts
        Sinister
        Space Chamber
        Terminatria
        Theatre of Pain
        The Edge
        Three Story
        Thunderstruck
        Use and Abuse

------------------------------------

QUAKE LIVE Update 23 - April 21, 2015

    Four new arenas! Two new announcers! Five new medals! Starting weapon changes and more! Today's update brings us some new content and important fixes, read what's new below!

    New Arenas Added:

        Elder



            Deep from within the bowels of the Nameless City lies Elder, a nostalgic Quake 1 inspired arena. This small and simple dreary place is home to more than just it's combatants, for Elder beings lie dormant in waiting, feeding off the pain and torment of it's captives. Locked away within lies 1xRA, 2xYA, 1xMH, and a 1x50hp for players to control, and after two minutes of gameplay two heavy stone doors reveal access to a railgun previously inaccessible. However beware, on Elder more than the usual is up for grabs as one shiny gold key lingers in it's halls for one and only one player to control; control the key and control the map. Designed by Adam 'SyncError' Pyle for Duel, Elder is also available for small FFA and 2v2 TDM matches.

            New Game Mechanics:

                Keys - Keys are available for pickup immediately on match start and once picked never respawn until the key holder dies. Kill the key holder and then retrieve the key to gain passage through the locked gold door. Elder introduces this concept with the gold key and door, and we've added support for future maps to also posses silver and master keys. The silver, gold, and master key models were crafted by Jochum 'Hipshot' Skoglund.
                Single State (Unary) Switches - Buttons and triggers now exist that allow you to activate a door or platform causing the mover to move once and remain in place for the remainder of the map, allowing maps to dynamically alter over the course of a match. Extending the ramps or opening the Obelisk Courtyard on Elder will create new means to move about the arena.

        Electrocution



            Created by Colin 'Q50' Dodd, Electrocution is a new to Quake Live Capture the Flag arena made with speed and fast tactics in mind. The most daring players can take their chance with short cuts over the maps walls, but watch out for the lasers, what might be a fast escape can quickly turn into a horrible death.

        Lost Paradise



            Face your foes in the ruins of Lost Paradise, a CTF arena created by Chad 'Despair' Younger. Hidden for centuries by the thick jungle, these massive opposing temples were once the site of ancient and bloody battles waged by those seeking to prove their superiority through victory. Multiple paths are available for attack, including a secret underwater entrance that leads to the middle of your opponent's base, as well as a trek through crumbling hallways. Seek out the Mega Health and Health Regen pickups to aid you in your battle.

        Servitude



            Brought to us by Todd 'Mr.Clean' Rose, these once-majestic gardens are now forgotten and decayed. Battle through the lost courtyards, halls, and walkways of this twisting arena, where your opponent could come from around any corner. A Mega Health lies in darkened hallways, while the Red Armor awaits on the top floor. Designed for CA and FFA.


    Renovated Arenas:

        Pulp Friction



            Industrial Accident by Jason 'Cornelius' Gill has been reworked to improve the gameplay experience. One side of the arena has now been flipped so that base entrances and layouts are the same on each side. Other major changes include a new smaller mid with more cover with an easier to reach Quad, the railguns have been relocated further way from mid to reduce railing, an easier to attack base, and a new gothic theme. But watch out, just because the Quad is easier to reach now, doesn't necessarily make it safer. A large smasher can be triggered above, leaving power-up hungry players into a pile of pulp.


    Alternative Announcer Voices:
    To change the announcer voice, choose between three announcers within the Game Settings Advanced Sound menu, and apply audio changes.

        Added Vadrigar (Classic) Announcer VO option
        Added Daemia (Female) Announcer VO option


    New Medals:

        Accuracy. Finish a round with over 50% accuracy.
        First Frag. Score the first frag in a match.
        Headshot. Frag an enemy with a Railgun shot to the head.
        Perfect. Win a round without taking any damage.
        Quad God. Frag 10 enemies on a single Quad Damage spree.


    Changes:

        Changed the Loadout menu into a Starting Weapons menu. Only one additional starting weapon is now select-able, and we have removed the Grenade Launcher from the loadout options.
        Enabled autoHop in all modes. Clients may disable with cg_autoHop 0 if they do not like the behavior.
        Added an Admin UI menu for server admins and ops.
        Weapon Config changes are now more responsive, and are applied immediately upon selecting a new weapon.
        Added s_killbeepVolume since some of those sounds are too quiet.
        In team modes, teams are no longer preserved after map changes. All players are now prompted the Join Team menu.
        Added "You Win" and "You Lose" VO at the end of FFA, Duel, Race, and RR matches.
        Added New High Score VO for Race
        Added Overtime VO (on first overtime only).
        Added Battlesuit VO
        Re-added Lead Tied and Teams are Tied VO, due to feedback.
        Added Blue / Red Flag Taken VO for spectators (free and first)
        Replaced cg_playTeamVO with cg_announcerLastStandingVO, cg_announcerLeadsVO, and cg_announcerTiesVO.
        Removed deprecated headshot plums, in light of the new headshot medals.
        Removed headshot hitsounds, in light of the new headshot medals.
        Added CVAR_REPLICATED to archived sound cvars.
        Specified a sort order on liquids/glass/flares/lightbeams shaders; Simple items and similar transparent objects should correctly sort over them now (in most cases).


    Fixes:

        Fixed a buffer overflow in the Announcer VO sound queue, fixing the FIGHT VO bug (as well as other issues caused by the overflow).
        Fixed splash damage being incorrectly awarded instead of direct damage when a projectile hits a player.
        Fixed missing impact sparks on RL, GL, and BFG hits.
        Fixed missing impact sparks on SG kills.
        Fixed EV_MISSLE_MISS being triggered on projectile kills instead of EV_MISSILE_HIT.
        Fixed several cases of that would cause UI elements to become discolored.
        Fixed Lead Lost / Lead Taken VO that wasn't playing in TDM when the teams were tied and someone killed themselves.
        Fixed the headshot detection code. Can now shoot down through the head and correctly receive headshots.


    Map Changes:

        Removed the MG from the following CTF maps:
        - Beyond Reality
        - Camper Crossings
        - Future Crossings
        - Gospel Crossings
        - Fluorescent (Reverted MG to SG)
        - Troubled Waters (Reverted MG to GL)
        Infinity
        - Added crates to the previously one-way flag entrance.
        - Converted base YA to GA
        - Moved lg further into the perimeter
        - Removed mid SG
        - Moved PG to MH room.
        - Replaced old PG with a SG.
        - Railgun moved to mid water
        - Medkit moved to old railgun position
        - Added a SG to the upper side hall.
        - Removed water from lower hall to flag room, added trims.
        - Changed red floor tiles from blue to red
        Satanic
        - Fixed nodrop fog at quad
        - Replace Quad with MH in Duel
        Stonekeep
        - Fixed race spawns
        - RA back to normal time, and MH increased to 60s


    Additional minor fixes for:
    (Thanks to all those who reported issues.)

        Canned Heat
        City Crossings
        Hidden Fortress
        Industrial Revolution
        Jumpwerkz
        Ragnarok
        Refinery
        Siberia
        Wargrounds


-----------------------------------


QUAKE LIVE Mini-Update: April 30, 2015

    We have applied a small follow-up to last week's update.

    Fixes & Updates:

        Fixed kamikaze crash and exploit.
        Starting Machinegun ammo reverted back from 50 to 100
        Fixed an animation issue caused by disabling 'Allow Taunt'
        Fixed 'Rewards VO' UI menu item
        Fixed Abort and Server buttons overlapping in Admin UI
        Ragnarok - Fixed slide near Quad
        Lost Paradise - Fixed hole in the map geometry by blue pg
        Elder - Sped up the doors and platform stairs
        Defaulted the spawn-as-spectator option off for Team Games.


